The Girl in Room 105 

Prologue 
On board IndiGo flight 6E766 HYD–DEL 
‘Fasten your seatbelts, please. We are passing through turbulence,’ the flight attendant announced. 
Eyes shut, I fumbled to find the belt. I couldn’t. 
‘Fasten your seatbelt, sir,’ the flight attendant personally reminded me. She looked at me like I was one of those dumb passengers who couldn’t follow simple instructions. 
‘Sorry, sorry,’ I said. Where was the other end of my belt, anyway? My head hurt from a lack of sleep. 
I had spent the whole day in Hyderabad at an education conference and was on the last midnight flight back to Delhi. 
Damn, where the hell was my buckle? 
‘You are sitting on your belt,’ the person next to me said. 
‘Oh, stupid me!’ I said, finally clicking my belt shut. My eyes still refused to open. 
‘Tough flight, isn’t it?’ he said. 
‘Tell me about it,’ I said. ‘I need a coffee.’ 
‘No service at the moment—because of the turbulence,’ he said. ‘Going for an event?’ 
‘Returning from one,’ I said, somewhat surprised. How did he know? ‘Sorry, I saw your boarding pass. Chetan Bhagat. The author, right?’ ‘Right now a zombie.’ 
He laughed. 
‘Hi, I am Keshav Rajpurohit.’ 
An awkward side-by-side handshake followed. 
We passed through angry clouds. They didn’t like this hard metal object disturbing them. The aircraft rattled like a pebble in a tin. I clutched the
armrests, a futile search for stability at thirty-eight thousand feet. ‘Nasty, eh?’ Keshav said. 
I breathed deeply through my mouth and shook my head. Relax, it’s going to be okay, I told myself. 
‘Isn’t it amazing? We are in this big metal box floating in the sky. We have absolutely no control over the weather. A strong gust of wind could rip this plane apart,’ he said in a calm voice. 
‘That’s comforting, Keshav,’ I said. 
He laughed again. 
Half an hour later, the weather had calmed down. The flight attendants resumed cabin service. I ordered two cups of coffee for myself. ‘Would you like one, too?’ I said. 
‘No coffee. Do you have plain milk?’ he said to the flight attendant. ‘No, sir. Just tea, coffee and soft drinks,’ the flight attendant said. Where did he think he was? A dairy farm? And how old was he? Twelve? 
‘Tea, then,’ he said, ‘with extra milk sachets.’ 
I gulped down my first cup of coffee. I felt like a phone with low battery that had finally met a charger. I rebooted, at least for a few minutes. I noticed the night sky outside, the stars sprayed across it. 
‘You look better now,’ Keshav commented. 
I turned at an angle to look at him properly. 
A handsome face with striking eyes, deep and brown. They looked like they had seen more life than a man his age, which I guessed was around mid twenties. Even in the dark, his eyeballs gleamed. 
‘I am addicted to this stuff,’ I said, pointing to the cup. ‘Not good.’ ‘Worse things to be addicted to,’ Keshav said. 
‘Cigarettes? Alcohol?’ I said. 
‘Even worse.’ 
‘Drugs?’ I whispered. 
‘Even worse.’ 
‘What?’ I said. 
‘Love.’ This time he whispered. 
I laughed so hard, coffee spilled out of my nose. 
‘Deep,’ I said, and patted the back of his hand on the armrest. ‘That’s deep, buddy. I guess coffee isn’t so bad then.’
He ran a hand through his hair—which he wore short, in a military crew-cut—and touched the gold stud that glinted in his left ear. ‘What do you do for a living, Keshav?’ I said. 
‘I teach.’ 
‘Oh, nice. What do you…’ 
‘I am from your college.’ 
‘Really?’ 
‘IIT Delhi. Class of 2013.’ 
‘You just reminded me how old I am,’ I said. Both of us laughed. ‘Actually, I might have a story for you,’ he said. 
‘Oh no, not again,’ I blurted out, and then kicked myself mentally for being so blunt. Exhaustion had made me forget my manners. ‘I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to be rude,’ I said. 
‘It’s fine,’ he said and rubbed his hands together. ‘Wrong of me to presume you would want to listen to it. I’m sure people come up to you all the time.’ 
‘Sometimes they do. But I didn’t have to be obnoxious. Sorry.’ ‘It’s okay,’ he said. He stared at the seat in front of him. 
‘I’m tired. Mind if I rest?’ I said. He didn’t respond. 
I shut my eyes. I wanted to sleep, but couldn’t. The overdose of caffeine and guilt prevented me from dozing off. 
I opened my eyes after twenty minutes. Keshav was still staring at the seat in front of him. 
‘Maybe I can hear your story in short,’ I said. 
‘Don’t feel obligated,’ he said, still looking in front. 
Of course, I feel obligated, dude. Especially if you sulk and don’t make eye contact. 
‘Listen,’ I said, ‘here’s the thing. You said addicted to love. So, it’s probably a love story. I am tired of love stories. Really, another Chetan Bhagat love story? Such a cliché now. I want to write something else. Not just about two people pining away. Who does that these days, anyway? Nowadays, people don’t fall in love. They swipe left and right…’ ‘It’s not a love story,’ he said, interrupting my blabber. 
‘Really?’ I said, one eyebrow up. ‘And can you please look at me when you talk?’ 
He turned to face me.
‘It is about an ex-lover. But it is not a love story,’ he said. ‘Ex-lover? You guys broke up?’ 
‘Yes.’ 
‘Let me guess. She broke up. And you still loved her? Wanted to get back?’ 
‘Yeah,’ he said, his lips tight. 
‘And did you?’ 
He shook his head. 
‘I couldn’t,’ he said. 
‘Why?’ 
‘Leave it. You don’t have to listen to me.’ 
‘I am just asking.’ 
‘I am tired. Mind if I rest?’ he said. He leaned back on his seat and down came his eyelids. He actually went off to sleep. Damn, you never do that to a writer. You don’t make him take late flights, pump him up with coffee, start telling a story, and then snooze off at a cliffhanger. I had to shake him by his shoulder. 
‘What?’ he said, startled. 
‘What happened between you and her?’ 
‘Who? Me and Zara?’ 
‘Is that her name? Zara? Zara what?’ 
‘Zara Lone,’ he said. 
‘So, tell me what happened.’ 
Keshav started to laugh. 
‘What?’ I said, surprised. 
‘For that I have to tell you the full story, Chetan.’ 
‘So, tell me. Maybe I will write it too.’ 
‘You don’t have to. As I told you, this is not really a love story. You can always write another cute boy–cute girl romance. Half or quarter girlfriend types.’ 
I ignored his sarcasm. 
‘Just tell me the story. I want to know what happened between you and Zara Lone,’ I said. 
fffff

REQUEST ANY EBOOK HERE
Chapter 1 
Six months ago 
‘Stop, my bhai, stop,’ Saurabh said, snatching away my whisky glass. ‘I am not drunk,’ I said. We were in a corner of the drawing room, near the makeshift bar. The rest of the coaching class faculty had gathered around Arora sir. They would never miss a chance to suck up to him. 
We had come to the Malviya Nagar house of Chandan Arora, owner of Chandan Classes, and our boss. 
‘You swore on me you wouldn’t have more than two drinks,’ Saurabh said. 
I smiled at him. 
‘But did I quantify the size of the drinks? How much whisky per drink? Half a bottle?’ My words slurred. I was finding it hard to balance myself. ‘You need fresh air. Let’s go to the balcony,’ Saurabh said. 
‘I need fresh whisky,’ I said. 
Saurabh dragged me to the balcony by my arm. When had this fatso become so strong? 
‘It is freezing here,’ I said, shivering. I rubbed my hands together to keep myself warm. 
‘You can’t drink so much, bhai.’ 
‘It’s New Year’s Eve. You know what that does to me.’ 
‘It’s history. Four years ago. It’s going to be 2018.’ 
‘Feels like four seconds ago,’ I said. 
I took out a cigarette packet, which Saurabh promptly grabbed and hid in his pocket. I pulled out my phone. I opened the contact details of my next intoxicant, Zara. 
‘What did she say that night?’ I said, staring at Zara’s WhatsApp profile picture. ‘We are done, that’s what she said. What did she mean done? How 

can she say we? I am not done.’ 
‘Leave the phone alone, bhai. You may accidentally call her,’ Saurabh said. He lunged for my phone. I dodged to avoid him. 
‘Look at her,’ I said, turning the screen towards Saurabh. She had put up a selfie as her DP—pouting, hand on waist, the black sari a dramatic contrast to her fair, almost pink, face. 
She didn’t always have her picture as her DP. Often, she would put up quotes. The ‘let life not hold you back’ kinds, statements that sound profound but actually mean nothing. 
Her WhatsApp display picture was the only connect I had left with her. It was how I knew what was happening in her life. 
‘Who wears black saris? She doesn’t look that great,’ Saurabh said. He always did his best to help me get over her. I love Saurabh—my best friend, colleague, and fellow-misfit in this crazy drive called life. He’s from Jaipur, not far from my hometown of Alwar. His father works as a junior engineer in 
the PWD. Like me, he too didn’t get placed after campus. Both of us worked our asses off at Chandan Classes, even as we hoped to get out of there ASAP. ‘It’s Zara. She always looks great,’ I put it plainly. 
Saurabh shrugged. 
‘That’s part of the tragedy.’ 
‘You think I am mad about her because of her looks?’ 
‘I think you should shut your phone.’ 
‘More than three years, dude. Three crazy, crazy years.’ 
‘I know, bhai. If you promise not to drink anymore, we can go back in. It is cold here.’ 
‘What do you know?’ 
‘That you dated Zara for three years. Want dinner?’ 
‘Screw dinner. More than three. Three years, two months and three weeks to be precise.’ 
‘You told me. Rendezvous 2010 to New Year’s Eve 2014.’ ‘Yes, Rendezvous. That’s when we met. Did I tell you how we met?’ I said. My feet were finding it harder to find the floor. Saurabh held me tight to prevent me from falling. 
‘Yes, you have told me. Fifty times,’ Saurabh muttered. 
‘There was a debating competition. She was in the finals.’ 
‘Bhai, you have told this story a zillion times,’ he said. I didn’t care. He
couldhearitazilliontimesplusone.
Chapter 2 
A little over seven years ago 
Clash of the Titans, debate finals 
Rendezvous Fest, IIT Delhi 
October 2010 
She stood on the left podium. Her upright posture made her look taller than her five feet three inches. She wore a white salwar kameez, and a fuchsia dupatta with silver piping. I should have focused on her debating skills rather than her attire. However, even her debate opponent paused for a few seconds to take in Zara’s stunning, model-like looks. 
The Seminar Hall stage had a banner with the debate topic: Should public display of religion be banned? 
Zara Lone was debating against Inder Das, the reigning champion from Hindu College. Both had reached the finals of Clash of the Titans. The packed hall was waiting for the duo to make their final rebuttals. Inder, with his loose kurta, curly hair and rimless glasses, looked like he had walked out of a Bengali art film, one of those where everyone waits for five seconds before the next dialogue. 
‘Last I heard, we are a free country,’ Inder said. ‘Our Preamble uses the word “secular”. The state will not discriminate or meddle in the profession of any religion. Article 25 through to 28 in our Constitution guarantees freedom of religion.’ 
Damn, people know the articles of the Constitution? I didn’t even know the Constitution had something called articles. I had no view on either side of the debate. I only wanted Zara to win. I wanted to see her smile. 
Zara raised her hand to object. However, she had to wait her turn as Inder wouldn’t stop.
‘Article 25 says, and I quote,’ Inder said and paused, fumbling through his notes. 
When people say ‘I quote’ and pause, they come across as scary-level intellectuals. Let’s face it, nobody wants to mess with the ‘I quote’ types. Inder spoke again, or rather quoted. 
‘All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practise, and propagate religion.’ He paused again for us to digest that. ‘Miss Zara Lone, you are arguing not only against our culture, but also against the Constitution. You not only want to take away our Diwali celebrations, you want to break the law, too.’ 
He finished his speech and tossed his notes aside in disgust; I could smell his pomposity from where I sat. Inder shook his head, as if to say, Why are we even debating this? 
The crowd broke into applause. I had a sinking feeling. Would Zara lose? 
All eyes turned to Zara. She waited for the applause to die down before she spoke. 
‘My opponent seems to have a good knowledge of the Constitution. I compliment him for that,’ Zara said. Inder smiled. 
‘However, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the right thing to do, not just quote Constitution clauses we can Google in two seconds.’ The audience sat up straight. This petite fireball was not going to give up so easily. 
She continued, ‘The Constitution is the foundation of our republic, but it can be changed. Have we not made Constitutional amendments?’ Zero decibel silence in the hall. 
‘So the issue here is not what is written, but what needs to be written,’ she said. 
‘Yes, superb! Shabash,’ I blurted out aloud. My voice echoed in the silent hall. Damn, I had thought more people would applaud. The entire audience, including Zara Lone, looked at me. 
‘Thank you.’ She smiled at me. ‘But save it for later.’ 
The five hundred-odd audience burst into laughter. The serious vibe thawed a little, even as I went stiff. I wanted a power cut, absolute darkness and complete invisibility so I could run out of the hall. Zara went back to her argument.
‘My friend only quoted Article 25 partially. Article 25 does say that all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practise, and propagate religion, but it also says, “subject to public order, morality and health”. How did my esteemed opponent miss out on that?’ 
‘So, if it bothers others,’ Inder said, interrupting Zara, ‘as a Muslim, would you stop the azaan from being called on loudspeakers five times a day?’ 
‘Yes, I would.’ 
The audience let out a collective gasp. A Muslim girl saying this on stage had everyone’s attention. Unfazed, Zara continued. ‘You can still pray five times a day. Maybe have an app to remind you on your phone. Listen to the prayers on headphones. But don’t impose them on the whole neighbourhood. And I would appreciate it if you didn’t say things like “as a Muslim”. I am not here as a Muslim, I am here as a finalist in the Clash of the Titans debate competition.’ 
The applause was deafening. A few minutes later, one of the faculty members from the judging panel went up to the podium to announce the results. 
‘The debates were excellent today. However, to argue for restricting displays of religion is difficult all over the world, let alone India. You had the harder side, Miss Zara, and you defended it with logic and poise. Hence, the winner for this year is Miss Zara Lone.’ 
A standing ovation followed. Zara came to accept the trophy. I clapped like a maniac. A fellow hostel-mate egged me to whistle. Did I tell you I had the loudest whistle in IIT Delhi? I put my right thumb to my index finger in an ‘O’ shape and brought it to my mouth. 
Tweeeet! My whistle, loud and shrill, suited a football stadium more than a debating contest. Many intellectual types turned to me again, wondering why such a crass person had been allowed in here. 
My whistle caught Zara’s attention. She looked at me, trophy in hand, and smiled. I pulled out my fingers from my mouth. 
‘Dude, easy. She is your girlfriend or what?’ a guy next to me said. No, she isn’t, but she will be, I wanted to say. After all, the universe had already decided it. 
I stepped out of the hall and walked towards the food stalls.
‘Thanks for the cheering.’ I froze on hearing her voice. 
‘Zara?’ I said, turning around. 
‘Yeah. Nice college. Are you from here?’ 
‘Yes. How about you?’ I said. 
‘Delhi College of Engineering. Missed IIT by a few marks. Not smart enough.’ 
‘You demolished him in there. You are definitely smarter than me.’ We walked out on to the main road, which was dotted with food kiosks due to the festival. 

‘As you guys walked, Zara asked if you were hungry. You guys ate together. Exchanged phone numbers…’ Saurabh said, breaking my story narration. ‘What? How do you know this?’ I said. A waiter saw us out on the balcony. He came to us with a tray of drinks. Despite Saurabh’s attempts to stop me, I picked up a glass of whisky. 
‘Arrey, bhai, please. You ordered a plain dosa. She ordered a parantha. The parantha wasn’t good. You gave her your dosa. The rest is history. Let’s go in. I am turning to ice here.’ 
He hugged himself. I took a big sip of whisky. It went down my throat like a little ball of fire. 
‘Have a drink,’ I said, ‘it will make you feel less cold.’ 
‘Not really. Alcohol actually leads to heat loss. It is heat coming out that makes your skin feel warm.’ 
‘Golu, seriously, stop the JEE chemistry. It’s New Year’s Eve,’ I said. I brought the glass close to his mouth. He looked at me once, then with great reluctance took a sip. 
‘Good job, my Golu,’ I said. ‘So you know about the dosa too? You want to know about our next meeting? The first real date?’ ‘Please, no, bhai. Let’s hang out with the other staff inside. They already think we are antisocial.’ 
‘Screw them. We freaking hate this job,’ I said. ‘How do you expect us to socialise?’ 
‘Let’s talk to them a little bit.’ 
‘In a minute. I just need to make a call.’
I pulled out my phone. I opened Zara’s contact. Saurabh saw her picture. ‘No, bhai, no.’ He reached for my phone. I ran ahead of him as he clumsily and unsuccessfully chased me. 
‘Bhai, my kasam. You are not calling her.’ 
‘It’s New Year. I can’t even wish her?’ 
‘Bhai, no!’ he said as I shushed him. 
‘Shh. It’s ringing,’ I said. I used my left hand to keep Saurabh at a distance and my right hand to hold the phone to my ear. 
One ring. Two rings. Five rings. Seven rings. 
‘Hello?’ I said as I heard a voice. ‘Hello, Zara. Don’t hang up, okay?’ ‘The person you have dialled cannot be reached. Please try again later.’ It was the Airtel lady, the emotionless bitch. If only she knew how important this call was to me. 
‘Couldn’t get through? Good. Leave it,’ Saurabh said. 
I dialled again. Same seven rings. Same cold Airtel bitch. 
‘Stop it, bhai. She will see all those missed calls and freak out.’ ‘I don’t care,’ I said. Once you have already faced the humiliation of giving the other person multiple missed calls, it doesn’t matter if it is two or three. Or seven. Or ten. 
That is why I dialled her a tenth time. And this time it wasn’t the Airtel lady. 
‘Hello.’ I heard Zara’s voice. Her one word alone made me feel better than any whisky in the world could. 
‘Hey, Zara,’ I said, clearing my throat and stretching the ‘hey’ longer than necessary. Saurabh let out a sigh of disappointment. I stepped away from him. 
‘Yes, Keshav,’ she said in measured tones. She sounded cold. Colder than the Airtel lady. 
I wondered what to say next. ‘I have been trying to call you,’ I managed to say. 
‘I know. And you should realise that if someone doesn’t pick up the phone ten times, then maybe they can’t talk.’ 
‘Nine times. Not ten. Anyway, are you busy?’ I said. ‘I can call later.’ I needed an excuse to call her again and hear her voice another time. I heard music in the background. She was at a party too. Maybe in the black sari. I wondered if her idiot loser boyfriend was with her.
‘What is it, Keshav? Why have you called me?’ she said. 
I stepped to a corner of the balcony. Saurabh did not follow but kept an eye on me from a distance. 
‘I just wanted to say happy new year. Why are you interrogating me like this?’ I said. 
‘Hold on a second,’ she said, as her attention shifted from me to someone else at the party. ‘Hi,’ I heard her say, ‘you look lovely too.’ ‘Zara, are you there?’ I said, when I didn’t hear anything for a long while. 
‘There are just too many people here. Anyway. You know what we decided, right?’ 
‘To be together forever and ever?’ I said. Damn, why did I have to say that? 
‘What?’ 
‘Didn’t we, when we went on our trip? New Year in Goa.’ ‘That was a long time ago, Keshav.’ 
‘Six years ago, 2011 New Year’s Eve,’ I said. When the heart breaks, the part of the brain that stores data on past dates works perfectly. ‘I meant when we broke up. We decided to not be in touch. Something you don’t follow. It’s been years since we broke up now.’ 
‘Okay, so kill me. Kill me because I called to wish you. Kill me because New Year’s Eve makes me remember you. Or kill me because it is the anniversary of the day we first made love.’ 
‘Keshav, stop it.’ 
‘Stop what? Thinking about you? I wish I could,’ I screamed. ‘I so freaking wish I could.’ 
Saurabh came running to me. He gestured to check what the matter was. I shook my head. He motioned for me to put the call on speaker. I complied. ‘Are you drunk?’ Zara said in her soft, almost caring voice. ‘How does it fucking matter? Drunk or not, I miss you, Zara. What are you doing with that loser Raghu?’ 
‘Stop calling him names, Keshav. And I have to go.’ 
Saurabh sliced his hand in the cold Delhi air, indicating I end the call. Of course, I ignored his sane advice. 
‘Oh, so protective of your Raghooooo,’ I said, mocking his name. ‘Maggu Raghu. That’s what they called him in hostel. You know that? Mag-
gu Rag-hu.’ 
‘I don’t have to take this, Keshav,’ Zara said, ‘I am going to hang up. Don’t call me back.’ 
‘So touchy for that freaking nerd. That nerd who loves his fuck-all dotcom company more than anything else. He can never love you like I do.’ ‘That fuck-all dotcom company is one of India’s hottest startups—and Raghu created it. Do you know its valuation? Why am I even telling you this?’ Zara said, her voice irritated. 
‘So that is why you went to him. For his money,’ I said. 
‘I went to him because I wanted to belong. I wanted a family. And you were running scared. Instead of manning up, you abused my folks.’ ‘And what did your folks do?’ 
‘You have tried this before. It won’t work. You can’t provoke me. Now, bye. Don’t call me again or I will have to block you.’ 
‘Block me? Are you bloody threatening to block me—’ 
I had to stop mid-sentence because she had ended the call. 
‘Anyway, even I have to go,’ I said to nobody on the phone. ‘She’s cut the call, bhai,’ Saurabh said. Fine, she hung up on me. Why pretend she didn’t? 
I looked at Saurabh. I expected a slap. He came forward and hugged me. The whisky, rejection and his hug added up. I began to cry loudly. ‘Bloody bitch. “I will have to block you”—I love her every minute and this is what she says to me,’ I said between sobs. 
‘Bhai, you have to leave this girl. It’s been too long,’ Saurabh said. ‘I am so over her,’ I said. The biggest lie of the freaking millennium. ‘Good. Shall we go in?’ 
‘Wait. I have to call her once more. I have to tell her I am over her.’ ‘No, bhai, no…’ 
Before Saurabh could react, I had dialled her number again. The phone rang. I expected her to cut the call. However, someone picked up. ‘Yes?’ a male voice said on the other end. Damn, it was the lover of the century, Raghu. 
‘Oh,’ I said, ‘happy new year.’ 
‘Listen, Keshav, I want to be civil, but I have to tell you to stop bothering Zara.’ 
Fucker, who was he? Her dad? Her watchman? And ‘I want to be civil’,
who talks like that? What the hell does that even mean? 
‘I am not bothering her,’ I said, trying not to slur. 
‘I think you are. And you do this regularly.’ 
‘I don’t.’ 
‘It has happened many times in my presence. Please stop. I am requesting you,’ Raghu said, his voice poised and calm. He probably only had coconut water to drink on New Year’s Eve. 
‘See, bro,’ I said, trying to figure out what to say next, the whisky making it difficult for me to structure a logical, decent sentence. All I really wanted to say was, ‘Fuck off, Zara is mine’. However, even in my drunken state, I knew that wasn’t the best idea. 
‘Just cut the call,’ I heard Zara’s voice over his. Bitch. Bitch to the power of five. 
‘Yes, Keshav?’ Raghu said, his voice patient. 
‘See, bro,’ I repeated. ‘Can I speak to Zara?’ 
‘She doesn’t want to speak to you.’ 
‘How do you know? Give her the phone.’ 
‘She just told me. Now can you let us be in peace? Happy new year. Bye.’ 
‘Listen, Raghu,’ I said, my voice dropping. 
‘What?’ 
‘Listen, Raghu, I will come and…’ I said things I don’t want to repeat here. Mostly because I don’t remember them. I think it involved me doing unmentionable things to Raghu’s mother, sister and probably grandmother. I said all this in explicit Hindi, using words that would make even the truck drivers of Rajasthan blush. 
‘And I will take a danda and…’ I said as Saurabh took the phone from me. He cut the call and kept my phone in his pocket. 
‘What chutiapa are you doing?’ Saurabh yelled at me, something he never does. I looked away from him as I realised what I had done. ‘You were cursing Zara,’ he said. 
‘Nope. Only Raghu,’ I said. 
‘Have you lost all shame?’ Saurabh said. 
‘I just wanted to speak to Zara. Asshole picked up.’ 
‘Because she doesn’t want to talk to you,’ Saurabh said. 
‘I am fucking never ever calling her again.’
Saurabh shook his head and smiled sadly. 
‘I mean it.’ 
‘Why are you obsessed with this girl?’ 
‘May I have my phone back?’ I said softly. 
Saurabh patted his pocket. 
‘I am keeping it. And I will smash your phone to the floor if you don’t come in. Right now.’ 

We came back into Chandan’s drawing room. Kamal sir, chemistry teacher in Chandan Classes, walked up to us. 
‘Happy new year ji. Another year, another JEE. Another round of students ji,’ he said and laughed at his own joke. 
I touched my glass to his. 
‘Where were the two of you? Arora ji was asking,’ he said. ‘Sorry, we wanted some air,’ Saurabh said. 
‘And now some whisky,’ I winked. ‘Kamal ji, will you get me a drink?’ ‘Sure,’ he said. ‘I will be right back.’ 
Saurabh glared at me after Kamal left. 
‘Stop,’ he said. 
‘Last drink. Can I have my phone back?’ 
‘Never. That wasn’t cool, Keshav. How you shouted outside.’ ‘Golu ji. When you scold me, you look too cute. Your round face becomes red like a tomato ji,’ I said. 
‘Stop it,’ he said. 
I moved towards him. 
‘Happy new year ji. Another year, another JEE,’ I said and tickled his paunch. 
‘I said stop it.’ 
I dipped my hand into his trouser pocket to get my phone back. ‘Never,’ he said, as he laughed and tried to push my hand away. ‘You have become even more fat, Golu,’ I said, feeling his belly. ‘You love your mithai, no?’ 
‘Better than loving what you can never have,’ Saurabh said, shoving my arm away.
Chapter 3 
‘Come in. The great Rajpurohit sir,’ Chandan Arora said. His voice came out muffled because his mouth was full. 
The entire room reeked of pan masala, which had its epicentre at Chandan’s thick lips. He chewed gutkha as he waved towards a seat. I sat down and waited while he finished chewing the various substances in his mouth. I stared at the pictures on the wall behind him. In some photographs he posed with past successful students, along with their IIT admission letters. A framed, fake and photoshopped certificate said, in bold letters, ‘Chandan sir, the ultimate king of JEE chemistry’, something an ex-student had made for him. In another picture, a sunglasses-wearing Chandan stood with arms folded on top of the main multi-storey building at IIT Delhi. It signified his conquering of the IIT entrance exam system. Chandan never made it to IIT himself. He used to be a chemistry professor at Venkateswara College in Delhi University. Ten years ago, he started taking JEE chemistry tuitions in the garage of his Malviya Nagar house. Business grew and finally became Chandan Classes. He now rented a three-storey house in Malviya Nagar, in the same lane as his own home. Fifteen full-time faculty members worked for him. Seven of them were IITians, a fact he never stopped gloating over. ‘Yes, I never did IIT. Now look, IITians work for me,’ was what he said to parents of new students who were worried about Mr Arora’s credentials. Sometimes he would pull me out of class for display. 
‘Look at him. IIT Delhi 2013 batch. Now works for me,’ he would say, emphasising the ‘me’. Once, I remember him saying, ‘Does he look like there’s anything special about him? See, if he can get into IIT, your child can too.’ 
Splat! The sound of a mouthful of spit and gutkha being emptied into a dustbin brought me back to the present. 
‘So, Rajpurohit sir, how are your classes going?’
Apart from being an IITian zoo exhibit, I taught mathematics at Chandan Classes. And today Chandan Arora had summoned me to discuss my work. 
‘Good, Chandan sir,’ I said with a fake smile. ‘We just finished the calculus module.’ 
He slid a file towards me. 
‘Rajpurohit ji,’ he said, ‘this is the feedback from your students. Some say you discouraged them from trying for IIT.’ 
‘No, sir.’ 
He shut the file. 
‘Then why are they saying this?’ 
‘Sir, those must be the weak students. They rank last in every mock-test. They have no aptitude for science. Parents are pushing them. I don’t think they should be wasting their time trying for IIT.’ 
Chandan leaned back. His comfortable leather chair creaked under his heavy frame. 
‘We are not a career guidance centre, Rajpurohit ji.’ 
‘But they say they don’t even want to do IIT. Their parents made them join here.’ 
‘So who are we to interfere in family matters? Our job is to take classes.’ 
‘Sir, but—’ I said, before he interrupted me again. 
‘And, I also note you have not brought in new students.’ 
‘Sir, I am busy taking classes.’ 
‘You have to do marketing too. Meet new visitors when they come to the centre. Convince them to join. You never do that.’ 
I hated it. I despised meeting parents, especially parents of kids who would never make it. The JEE exam had a selection rate of less than 2 per cent. Hence, most who try for IIT fail. Of course, when you are selling coaching classes, that is not what you say. You make them dream—that their son or daughter will get into IIT. 
‘Rajpurohit ji, sorry to say, but you need to be more of a go-getter.’ Sure, I wasn’t that. Whatever the hell go-getter means. 
‘I will try, sir,’ I said. I swore to myself that I would update my résumé and LinkedIn profile again. I deserved a better job. Damn, I deserved a better life.

‘What happened? The gutkha-chewing asshole said something?’ Saurabh said. We sat on the tiny floor rug in the tiny living room of our tiny two bedroom flat. I poured out two large pegs of Blenders Pride. I had promised Saurabh I wouldn’t drink for a month post the New Year’s Eve debacle. I hadn’t. In fact, it had been more than a week since that one-month embargo had passed. 
‘Forget it.’ I handed him a drink. 
‘Something is the matter. You haven’t opened a bottle for a long time. Is it the Kashmiri girl again?’ 
‘Zara? No.’ 
‘I don’t like taking her name. You sure?’ Saurabh said. 
I shook my head. He wasn’t wrong to ask. Zara was always on my mind. All it took was for me to see a DTC public bus on a route we used to take together. I would spend the rest of the day thinking about her. Or I’d see a girl in a chikankari salwar kameez—something Zara liked to wear—and five more hours would be wasted. It felt like my brain had rewired itself; all neural passages led to Zara. I noticed the ice in my whisky glass, which relates to snow. Snow happens in Kashmir, hence Zara. I could see our coffee table made of wood. Wood comes from trees. Zara liked nature, including trees. There, my brain could lead from anything to Zara. 
And yet, I wasn’t drinking because of Zara today. 
I took a big sip as Saurabh remained silent. Men know when not to probe. I finished my first glass and poured a second drink for both of us. I gave the glass to him. 
‘I’ll join you, as long as you keep it under limits,’ Saurabh said. ‘I need it tonight.’ 
‘You can tell me what the matter is. If you want to.’ 
‘I hate my job.’ 
‘Me too. Tell me something new.’ He sniggered. 
‘We can’t be stuck in Chandan Classes forever. We went to IIT, for God’s sake.’ 
‘You did, bhai. I am a simple NIT-wallah from Nagpur.’ 
‘You are no less though. Why are we stuck in this idiot’s coaching
centre?’ 
‘That asshole Chandan said something?’ 
‘Yeah. But there’s more.’ 
‘What?’ 
‘I blew two interviews.’ 
‘Which interviews?’ Saurabh sat up straight. 
‘Okay, I am sorry. I applied to a few companies. I saw the ads on LinkedIn.’ 
‘You never told me!’ 
‘Sorry, I meant to. I thought, let something happen. Out of ten places, only two called me for interviews. Both sent a rejection on the same day.’ ‘Who?’ 
‘Infosys. And Flow Tech, a small software company in Gurgaon. I thought I did alright. Bloody hell, man. Body shop sending Indian programmers to Dubai. They didn’t give me a job.’ 
I finished my drink bottoms up. 
‘Screw them,’ Saurabh said after a pause. 
‘They asked me why I joined a coaching centre after IIT.’ ‘There is a stigma. Coaching classes on our résumé. Like we suddenly become unfit for corporates,’ Saurabh said. 
‘Updated your LinkedIn?’ 
‘Nothing to update.’ 
I opened Saurabh’s LinkedIn profile on my phone. 
‘At least put up a good picture. You look like a child-molester,’ I said. ‘Show me,’ Saurabh said and took the phone. ‘And you look like a member of a dance troupe. Why is your earring visible? You think that helps get a job?’ 
I took the phone back and looked at my picture. 
‘It’s my Rajasthani culture.’ 
‘No tech company wants a guy with jewellery.’ 
I kept my phone on the table. 
‘We suck. We can’t even put up a nice profile picture.’ 
‘Sir, that is why I tell you, start eating gutkha. Enjoy Chandan Classes and your meaningless life.’ 
I glared at Saurabh. 
‘Sorry, sorry. Yes. We won’t give up.’
Saurabh switched on the TV and changed the channel to the news. The prime-time story was about police lathi-charging girls at the Banaras Hindu University campus. The girls’ fault? They were protesting because they didn’t want to be molested. 
‘Are they serious? That’s the UP police. Hitting girls during a silent, non-violent protest?’ Saurabh said. 
Zara liked to attend protests too, my brain flashed a thought. My neural circuit was at it again. 
I lapsed back in time, to several years ago, when we had an activist-date.
Chapter 4 
Seven years ago 
‘How is going for a protest at Jantar Mantar a date?’ I said. We came out of the Barakhamba Road metro station in Connaught Place and walked towards Parliament Street. 
She tied her hair up in a bun. With a hairpin in her mouth, she said, ‘Thanks for joining me. It means a lot.’ 
‘What is the protest about exactly?’ I said. She had told me on the phone that it had something to do with Kashmir. With great effort I had gathered the courage to call and ask her out after Rendezvous. She had teased me, asking if I was actually asking her out on a date. I gambled with a ‘yes’. I told her we could go wherever she wanted. Well, she chose a protest. 
‘The Indian Army is committing atrocities on civilians in Kashmir. We are gathering to protest against that.’ 
Like most people around me, I had little idea about the Kashmir issue. I knew Pakistan wanted it, India would never give it up and some people in Kashmir didn’t want to be with either country. It mattered little to me. This was just a chance to bunk classes and spend the day with Zara Lone, the most beautiful, smart and articulate woman in the world. 
We reached Jantar Mantar. Around fifty students sat outside the monument. They held placards. 
‘Stop Innocent Killings in Kashmir.’ 
‘Pellet Guns Blind Protestors. Stop Using Them.’ 
‘Indian Army, Stop Atrocities on Kashmiris.’ 
Zara walked ahead of me. She went up to a small group of protesters. They stood up to hug her. She introduced me to them. 
‘Afsana, Zaheer and Karim,’ Zara said, ‘meet my friend Keshav.’ I shook hands with them. Now, I am not communal or racist or anything.
However, let me just say this, the current situation was a little different from what I was used to. Back in my hometown, Alwar, we don’t really mix with people of other religions. My mother might have fainted seeing me in a crowd of Muslims. My father’s friend circle is almost entirely from the RSS. Hence, we don’t really know many Muslims anyway. 
‘Razaq, Salim, Ismail,’ Zara introduced me to some of the others. I shook hands and smiled. I noticed their somewhat surprised expression when they heard my name, or when they noticed my earring. One of them gave me 
a choice of placards to hold. I took the relatively safe ‘Peace in the Valley’ sign. I clasped my banner in my arms as all of us sat down on the ground. Zara looked at me and smiled. 
‘What?’ I said. 
‘Thanks. For coming and supporting me.’ 
Yes, I was supporting her. To be with her. But was I supporting the protest? I don’t know. 
‘What exactly is going on, anyway?’ I said. 
‘Last week, the Indian Army fired pellet guns to disperse protestors in Kashmir. One protestor may turn blind.’ 
‘That’s terrible,’ I said, shocked. 
‘Yes, this needs to stop. Kashmir needs peace.’ 
‘But why did the Army shoot pellet guns?’ 
‘Because that’s what they do,’ Ismail said. He stood up along with his friends and walked away to shout slogans. Zara spoke to me when nobody was around. 
‘It’s not that simple, actually,’ she said. ‘The protestors threw stones at the Army.’ 
‘Why?’ I said, confused. 
‘Because they don’t like the Indian Army.’ 
‘But why?’ 
‘The Army has to find terrorists in Kashmir. Terrorists go mix with civilians. Sometimes, in hunting terrorists, civilians get harassed or hurt. So they hate the Indian Army.’ 
‘What else is the Army supposed to do?’ 
‘Not hurt innocent people for sure. Why are they firing pellet guns?’ ‘What would you do if someone threw rocks at you?’ 
‘You don’t understand,’ Zara said, ‘it’s complicated, this Kashmir
thing.’ 
I really didn’t understand. I could have argued with Zara, but a) I didn’t know much about the issue, b) Zara was a professional debater, and most importantly c) I wanted to have a real chance with her and not blow it over some stupid politics. 
‘You are absolutely right. Maybe you can tell me more about Kashmir. If we meet again,’ I said. 
‘We will,’ she said and squeezed my hand. A touch initiated by her is good, I told myself. 
As the slogans became louder, Zara leaned over and whispered in my ear. ‘Listen, I simply want peace. Violence is never good on either side. I love India. I love Kashmir.’ 
I nodded and smiled at her. 
‘Kashmir needs progress. That’s why I want to finish my studies and teach there. Education will bring peace. Nothing else.’ 
‘You want to do a peaceful dinner later?’ I said. 
She laughed. I took it as a yes. 
Three months later 
‘Did we have to wake up at five o’clock? I am so hung-over. How far is this place?’ I said, trying to catch my breath. 
‘Shh, see that Dona Paula statue on top of the rocks? We are going there. Ten more minutes,’ Zara said. 
I carefully placed one foot in front of the other on the black rocks as we walked towards the point where Zara wanted to see the first sunrise of the year. 
‘We came to Goa to chill. Is it even legal to wake up so early here?’ I said. 
Zara laughed. 
‘Seriously, we had such an amazing night,’ I said, ‘and what is this now? A punishment?’ 
We had come to Goa for our first holiday, and to celebrate New Year’s Eve together. Zara and I had made love the night before, and I had hoped to cuddle in bed all day and tell her how much I loved her. Of course, it is hard
to profess undying love to someone who sets a 4 a.m. alarm. ‘It will be worth it, mister,’ Zara said, walking ten steps ahead of me. Dona Paula is located along the sea near Panjim in Goa. The rocky 
terrain lies close to where the Zuari and Mandovi rivers meet the Arabian Sea. It took us forty-five minutes from our hotel to reach the white statue of a couple made famous by several movies. 
We sat on top of a large rock, the sky still dark. 
‘We are facing west. The sun rises in the east,’ I said. 
‘I know,’ Zara said. ‘Still, it is the new year. When daylight breaks, I want to witness it with you, holding your hand.’ 
She entwined my fingers with hers as we stared at the empty dark sky and the sea. I thought about last night, probably the best night of my life so far. 
There was a hint of pink in the sky. 
‘Happy new year, my love,’ Zara said, taking my hand to her lips. ‘My love, happy new year,’ I said. We kissed, and didn’t stop till the entire sky was lit up. 
I looked at her face. Would I ever get used to so much beauty? ‘Why do you love me?’ 
‘What?’ Zara said and laughed. ‘Are we fishing?’ 
‘Seriously, why? You are beautiful, intelligent, fun and articulate. You can get anyone. Why me?’ 
‘Well, I think you are handsome.’ 
‘I am serious, Zara.’ I didn’t want to be humoured out of this. Zara exhaled as she spoke after a pause. 
‘Well, it’s hard to find a man who can acknowledge a woman’s intelligence and be genuinely okay with it.’ 
‘What?’ 
‘I am serious. And I like your innocent politics.’ 
‘But I don’t like politics.’ 
‘I know. You are not left-wing or right-wing or this ideology or that. And yet you are naturally a good person. Not sexist, not communal, not biased. Just a nice guy.’ 
I nodded and smiled. 
‘But the real reason is the earring.’ 
‘What?’
‘For some strange reason I find it really hot. Come here you.’ Zara reached out for me again and the Dona Paula statue, I swear, winked at me. 

‘Bhai, where are you?’ Saurabh snapped his fingers in front of my eyes. I looked at the TV screen, even though my mind had just played a Jantar Mantar video from the past. 
‘Huh?’ I said. ‘I am here only. What did you say again?’ 
‘I said this country has gone mad. Listen to the college VC. He is saying we can’t take every girl’s complaint seriously.’ 
‘Idiot,’ I said, my mind still in Dona Paula. 
‘Lost in thoughts of her.’ Saurabh rolled his eyes. ‘I can tell from your face.’ 
I am always thinking of her, I wanted to say. 
‘It’s just the whisky.’ 
‘Not just the whisky. I know the date today, bhai,’ Saurabh said and leaned back on the sofa. 
‘What date?’ I said. 
I opened my phone to check. Thursday, February the 8th. In a few hours, it would be February 9th, Zara’s birthday. 
‘Oh yes, of course. Wow, I actually didn’t think about that today,’ I said. ‘That’s a first,’ Saurabh said. ‘Congrats. You are feeling like shit. But at least for other reasons.’ 
‘I did remember it two days ago though,’ I said. She turns twenty-seven. I kept my glass down, pressed the sides of my head with both palms, trying to squeeze her out of my thoughts. I didn’t want to remember her. How we spent her past birthdays together. How I climbed up the mango tree and entered her hostel room through her window; I did this while balancing a cake and flowers in my hand. How we spent the rest of the night in bed, legs entwined, imagining a life together. Or at least I did. 
‘Sorry, I shouldn’t have brought her up. I didn’t realise it wasn’t on your mind,’ Saurabh said. 
I shook my head, still squeezing my temples. 
‘It’s okay. I can handle this.’ 
‘Just don’t call her. Remember last time?’
My hands left my head, they had to carry whisky to my mouth. ‘I am not calling her, ever. I can’t be humiliated anymore,’ I said. A part of me was dying to see her DP on WhatsApp. Maybe she had a new one for her birthday. The one last week had a selfie of her and Raghu, arms draped around each other. I just hoped she had changed that picture. Hell, I didn’t want to hope for anything. I wasn’t going to look. 
Saurabh nodded slowly, not believing what I had just said. ‘Take my phone away if you want,’ I said. 
‘No, bhai. I trust you,’ Saurabh said. ‘In fact, to celebrate this new strength of yours, let’s have one more drink.’ 
He refilled our glasses. The Blenders Pride bottle had reached the halfway mark. I checked the time. It was eleven-thirty. Fine, I could do this. I could just enjoy drinks with my friend on a Thursday night and not call her. Even on her birthday. I had felt this control for the first time in years. The last four birthdays of hers since our breakup, I had called her first thing at midnight. Of course, she didn’t answer the phone three out of the four times. The one year she did pick up, she said she had family around and couldn’t talk. I told her I had only called to wish her. All she said was a lame, cold thank you. One shows more warmth before ending a wrong number call. Is it that easy for some people to move on? To go from one person to the next, like switching TV channels? Sure, the breakup was partly my fault. But could she get over me so easily? Why was I not over her, then? Like there was a defect in my head. It just wouldn’t let go. And why was I thinking of her again? I checked the time, it was midnight. My body tightened, as it prepared to fight an impulse. The impulse to pick up the phone and call her. To tell her I still loved her, and to give me one more chance, please, please. I tried to bring my focus back to the present moment. My drink was over. There was no more ice on the table. It gave me something to do. I went to the kitchen, took out ice from the freezer. I returned and made another drink. Ten past twelve. Wow, I had made it. Thankfully, Saurabh came up with a new topic. 
‘That Chandan is having an affair.’ 
‘No! Who would sleep with him?’ I said. 
‘That secretary of his.’ 
‘Sheela aunty?’ I grinned. ‘Are you serious? She is, like, fifty years old. And, what, a hundred kilos?’
‘Good enough for our man. The bigger the better,’ Saurabh said and laughed. 
‘Sheela aunty and Chandan! That is one gross visual.’ 
‘Nobody asked you to imagine them,’ Saurabh said. 
We began to giggle. I had known Sheela aunty since I had joined Chandan Classes. She often shared her tiffin with me. Last I heard, her married son’s wife was going to have a child. 
‘She gave me bhindi yesterday,’ I said. ‘That’s how I imagine her. The woman with the tastiest lunch. Now you are telling me, wait, gross—how do you know?’ 
‘I went to give her the weekly attendance report. Her phone was lying open next to her. Chandan had sent her WhatsApp messages.’ ‘What messages?’ 
‘Those kiss emojis. And a few of the red lips.’ 
‘Maybe the idiot doesn’t know what those emojis mean.’ 
‘“Sheela ji, you are too beautiful”, he had said next.’ 
‘What!’ I said. ‘No way! He could have just…’ 
‘Next was, “Sheela ji. Can’t wait for tonight”,’ Saurabh said. ‘I saw it, bhai. Sideways, but I saw it.’ 
‘Wow. Where do they do it?’ 
‘Where else? Haven’t you seen the sofa in his office?’ 
‘Yuck. I have sat on that sofa so many times.’ 
‘Hope they wipe it afterwards,’ Saurabh said. 
‘Shut up,’ I said. ‘I will never sit in that office again.’ 
‘You think he makes Sheela wipe the mess afterwards? Because, well, she is his secretary.’ 
The alcohol made everything seem extra-funny. Saurabh and I went hysterical with laughter. The little scandal in our boring workplace had added a spark to our super-dull life. Saurabh laughed so hard he slid off our slippery fake-leather sofa. He said he wondered if Chandan spat out the gutkha before 
they kissed. This time I laughed so much I, too, slid to the floor, holding my stomach. 
‘Bhai, look,’ Saurabh said, and shook the almost empty Blenders Pride bottle. 
‘Okay. We had too much. What time is it?’ 
‘It’s almost two, bhai.’
‘Wow. We discussed Sexy Sheela and Stud Chandan for so long?’ ‘They are probably doing it in the coaching centre right now,’ Saurabh said. 
‘Shall we go check? Imagine if we walk in. We will say we just came to pick up some notes.’ 
‘Let’s go,’ Saurabh said. The coaching centre was a five-minute walk from our house. Somehow, in our intoxicated and confident state, we felt a sting on Chandan was an amazing idea. 
‘Yeah, let’s,’ I said. 
My phone beeped. I had a message. After a few seconds, it beeped a few more times. 
‘Who is messaging me so late?’ 
‘Must be some phone company message. Buy more data and shit,’ he said and put his head sleepily on my shoulder. 
‘Why the hell do they message so late?’ My eyes began to droop shut. The phone beeped again. 
‘Damn you!’ I picked up the phone. 
I cracked open my right eye to look at my locked home-screen: 5 new WhatsApp messages from Zara Lone 
I shook my head in disbelief. Was I that drunk? I rubbed my eyes and read it again. I had read it right. I shook my shoulder to wake up Saurabh. ‘Golu, get up,’ I said. ‘See this.’ 
‘What? I don’t freaking want their extra 5 GB, bhai. Let me sleep.’ ‘Saurabh, see the screen.’ 
Saurabh groaned as he lifted his head. 
‘Zara messaged you?’ 
‘Yeah.’ 
‘Did you message her first?’ 
‘No, I swear. I am drunk, but I didn’t. We were talking about Chandan and Sheela. I haven’t touched my phone.’ 
‘Oh,’ he said and fell silent. 
‘Should I open it?’ 
Saurabh picked up a Bisleri water bottle from the table. He drank with big, loud, annoying and slow glugs. 
‘Tell me, Golu,’ I said. 
‘Of course, bhai,’ Saurabh said, wiping his mouth. ‘What kind of a
question is that? You won’t check your own phone?’ 
I opened my WhatsApp and saw her messages. 
‘So you don’t even wish me anymore?’ said the first. The rest followed. ‘It’s my birthday. I hope you remember.’ 
‘Just was surprised you didn’t wish me.’ 
‘Anyway. Don’t know why I was thinking of you.’ 
‘I guess you are busy.’ 
She had a new display picture. It was a solo black and white selfie. She looked as stunning as ever. I saw her chat status was ‘online’. ‘Golu, what is this?’ 
Saurabh read the messages. 
‘Either she has realised your value or she just misses the attention,’ Saurabh said. 
‘Should I reply?’ I said. 
‘I don’t know.’ Saurabh yawned. ‘I am sleepy.’ 
‘This is important, Golu. I need your clear thinking. I am too involved and too drunk.’ 
‘Wait,’ Saurabh said. ‘Let’s wash our faces. Come back to our senses.’ We struggled to reach the bathroom. We splashed our faces with chilled water. 
‘Are you there?’ She sent another text. She must have seen the double blue ticks after I had read her messages. 
‘Golu, what do I reply?’ I said. 
‘Whatever. Just have a normal conversation.’ 
So bloody insightful. 
‘Yes,’ I replied. 
She didn’t respond for a few seconds. I saw the ‘typing…’ message, which went and came back as she corrected herself. 
‘I miss you,’ she said. 
A tremble ran through me. Saurabh saw the message. I stepped away from him. I wanted his advice, but I didn’t want him to see all my private conversations. 
‘Wow,’ I texted, ‘really?’ 
‘Yes. Life is quite incomplete without you.’ 
I heard a retching sound. Saurabh had puked on the coffee table. Some ambience for a romantic chat.
‘Sorry,’ Saurabh said, ‘I will clean it up.’ He went to the kitchen. I turned back to my phone. 
‘You serious, Zara? You know what that means to me.’ 
‘I do. I tried to be tough and cut you off. It doesn’t work. I miss you.’ ‘What about Raghu?’ 
Saurabh wiped the table with a washcloth. 
‘Everything okay?’ he said. 
I raised a thumbs-up to him. 
‘Raghu’s a nice guy. Very nice. But he’s not the one,’ Zara replied. I choked up as I read her message. Yes, I still had a chance. Thank you, God. 
‘I miss you too. So much,’ I replied. 
‘Yeah, right. That is why you forgot my birthday.’ She added an upset emoji. 
‘I didn’t, baby. I had to control myself to not wish you. Don’t be upset.’ ‘I am kidding,’ she said, along with her favourite laughter with tears emoji. 
‘Lol. Can I call to wish you?’ 
‘Why call? You are not going to wish me in person?’ 
I kept my phone aside. I folded my hands up to the sky. Divine intervention had just taken place. She herself wanted to see me. ‘Of course, I do. When? In the morning?’ 
‘How about now?’ 
I checked the time. 
‘What? It’s almost 3. Where are you?’ 
‘In my room. Himadri.’ 
‘You are in the hostel? On your birthday? Didn’t go home?’ ‘Will go tomorrow. There’s a party. Family mostly.’ 
‘Where’s Raghu?’ 
‘Hyderabad.’ 
‘Oh. You want to step out? Can you?’ 
‘It’s difficult to leave the hostel at this time. But you can come. If you want to.’ 
‘How?’ 
‘Oh. Someone’s forgotten. How they’d climb trees to come wish me.’ ‘Ha ha. That was years ago.’
‘I miss those days.’ 
‘Me too.’ 
‘I guess you can’t do all that now. You have passed out of college.’ ‘What?’ 
‘It’s okay. You don’t have to come.’ 
‘I can. I will come. Now?’ 
‘It’s too late and cold. Risky too. You aren’t a student anymore.’ ‘Is your room still 105? Facing the mango tree?’ 
‘It’s okay, K. We will meet later.’ 
She had called me K after years. I even missed her abbreviations. ‘Just tell me your room number, Zara.’ 
‘Of course, it is still 105. I love my room. Why?’ 
‘Nothing. See you in half an hour.’ 
She sent a grin smiley back. She knew me enough; I’d never give up a challenge or a chance to meet her. 
I kept the phone in my pocket. Saurabh lay flat on the sofa. ‘Wake up, we have to go,’ I yelled into his ear as I shook his shoulder.
Chapter 5 
‘This is insane. Completely insane,’ Saurabh kept chanting. His teeth chattered as he sat pillion on my bike. 
‘Ready?’ I said, putting on my helmet. 
‘It’s freezing.’ 
‘Zip up your jacket.’ 
‘It’s late. We are so drunk. Why do we have to go now?’ 
‘It’s Zara, Golu. She herself invited me. On her birthday.’ 
‘Meet her in the morning. I am sleepy, bhai.’ He rested his head on my back. 
I kick-started the bike. The vibrations of my Enfield woke him up. ‘You are not even a student anymore. How will you get into the campus?’ Saurabh said. His voice vibrated along with the bike. ‘I have my old ID.’ 
We left the compound of my house and headed out towards the Outer Ring Road to reach the IIT main gate, a ten-minute drive. 
‘Slower, bhai,’ Saurabh said. He held my shoulders tight. ‘My stomach doesn’t feel so good.’ 
‘Don’t puke on me, okay? Tell me to stop if you need to.’ 
‘Slow down, anyway. There could be cops.’ 
Saurabh was right. We had so much whisky inside us, the cops’ breathalyser would probably blow up. 
A police checkpost came up ahead, two hundred yards before the IIT main gate. A cop signalled us to slow down. 
‘Damn, we are dead,’ Saurabh said. 
‘Wait,’ I said. I slowed down the bike, as if to comply with the policeman. I brought the bike to a halt a few steps from him. However, I did not shut the ignition. Two other cops walked towards me. In a second, I put the bike into first gear and zoomed off. I could hear the cops scream from
behind. 
‘What the hell was that?’ Saurabh said and turned around. ‘They have a bike too. They will chase us.’ 
‘Take out my ID. It’s in my jacket pocket. Quick.’ 
As Saurabh fumbled and pulled out my old IIT student card, I reached the gate. 
‘Keshav Rajpurohit, Kumaon hostel,’ I said, with the same confidence as when I was a student. I didn’t remove my helmet. 
‘ID?’ the security guard said. 
Saurabh flashed my old ID. He hid the ‘valid until’ date with his finger. It is amazing how even under alcohol’s influence, the brain knows how to cover its ass from authorities. 
The IIT security guard let us in. 
I tore into the campus. I took the road towards the institute building on the way to Himadri hostel. 
‘Are the cops coming?’ I said. 
Saurabh looked back. 
‘No. They stopped outside the main gate.’ 
‘They never come inside campus,’ I said and grinned. 
The cops were familiar with IIT students, who often took their bikes for a spin outside at weird hours. For the most part, they left them alone. ‘Terrible idea, anyway. Now the cops have your bike number.’ ‘They won’t care.’ 
‘How do you plan to get inside Himadri?’ Saurabh said. 
‘Like I used to. Mango tree.’ 
‘Seriously, bhai? You are not a student anymore. You won’t just get into trouble with the profs. You will go to jail.’ 
‘Relax.’ 
I parked the bike fifty meters away from Himadri. The main entrance of the girls’ hostel had twenty-four-hour security. A patrolling jeep also took rounds every hour to check if the guard had dozed off. The mango tree at the back was the only way I could get in. 
Room 105 was the corner room on the first floor of Himadri. It was somewhat cut off from the other rooms, and was where Zara had been staying from the time she joined IIT five years ago. It had a big window with a lush green mango tree outside.
Fortunately for Zara, when she had joined IIT as a PhD student, the much-in-demand room had become available. We used to call 105 ‘our little home’, as this was where we met most of the time. 
I never took Zara to my hostel. Forget the rules, which did not allow girls, I was also aware of how female-deprived the boys there were. Walking in with a Zara and locking the door of your room—that would just rub salt in their wounds. 
Of course, I was not allowed into Himadri as well, which was a strictly girls-only hostel. However, if you were reasonably agile, the tree outside room 105 had uses apart from yielding delicious mangoes every year. At least one night a week I would climb it. Once at first floor height, I would jump across through the window of 105 and I’d leave before daylight. Nobody ever found out that Zara had a male visitor. The whole system worked beautifully. Of course, until we broke up. 
Saurabh and I walked towards the back of Himadri to reach the mango tree. I removed my jacket. 
‘So this is how you used to—’ Saurabh started, but I interrupted him. ‘Shh … low volume, please.’ 
‘Where is her room?’ Saurabh whispered. 
I pointed at her window. 
‘What if you fall?’ 
‘Done it a dozen times.’ I waved my hand airily. 
‘With Blenders Pride in your blood?’ 
‘Relax, I am fine.’ I twisted my body side to side as warm-up. I clasped the trunk with my hands and lifted one leg up to the first branch. I had done this so many times, my movements were reflexive. Once up on the tree, I looked down at Saurabh. We whispered to each other. 
‘You wait here. If anyone comes, cough,’ I said. 
‘How will that help?’ 
‘That’s true. It won’t. Okay, if anyone comes this way, distract them. Give them some reason why you are here.’ 
‘What? What is a coaching class tutor doing at a girls’ hostel at quarter past three in the morning?’ 
‘I don’t know,’ I said, brushing leaves off my face. 
‘Bhai, you haven’t thought this through.’ 
‘It’s fine. Nobody will come,’ I said and looked up. I climbed a few
more inches and looked down at Saurabh again. 
‘Damn. Big problem,’ I said. Saurabh’s face dropped. 
‘What?’ Saurabh said. 
‘I didn’t get her a gift.’ 
‘Seriously, bhai, that’s your big problem?’ 
‘I’m meeting her after years. On her birthday. With no gift.’ ‘Send her an Amazon voucher later. Now please go up. Just get it over with.’ 
‘No gift, no cake, damn,’ I mumbled, pulling myself up with my arms. I noticed that my fitness levels had dropped. I guess teaching maths at Chandan Classes didn’t keep me as fit as when I was the volleyball captain at IIT Delhi. I reached Zara’s window. She had kept it slightly ajar for me, just like she used to. 
I stretched out my hand to push the window wide open so I could enter. The room lights were switched off. Maybe she had gone back to sleep. Or maybe she was pretending to have done so in order to enhance my surprise. Zara had a bit of crazy in her, just as I did. At least she used to. Maybe that is why we connected in the first place. 
The branches had grown since I last climbed them. Instead of jumping into the room as before, I simply hooked one leg over the windowsill. I held the window frame with my hands and pulled the rest of my body in. 
‘Happy birthday to you,’ I sang softly as I shut the window. I tiptoed into the room, my eyes adjusting to the darkness. I only heard the mild hum of the convection heater in response. 
‘Happy birthday, dear Zara,’ I continued to sing, standing near her bed. She’s the one who had invited me. However, I couldn’t presume she’d be okay with me sliding under her sheets and hugging her like old times. No, I couldn’t just cuddle her. We weren’t together anymore, I reminded myself. 
But she did say she missed me, a voice in my head said. I took out my phone and switched on the torch. The white LED light lit up wherever I pointed it. I saw Zara in bed, fast asleep. The quilt almost covered her face. ‘Zara,’ I said, my voice soft. I did not want to startle her. 
‘It’s Keshav. I am here,’ I whispered again. 
She didn’t react. I found the bedside lamp’s switch with the help of the phone flashlight. Watery light filled the room. Zara lay in bed, covered in her white quilt with pretty pink flowers printed all over it.
‘Hey, birthday girl,’ I said. ‘It’s me, I’m here to wish you.’ No reaction. Okay, nice acting, very cute, I thought. I looked around her room. She had a bundle of white paper sheets, probably study material, on her bedside table. Her iPhone lay on top of the study material, and was connected to a charger. Like always, Zara had Johnson’s Baby Lotion next to her. She applied it on her face and body every night, and always smelt like a baby. 
‘Hey, Johnson’s baby,’ I said, ‘wake up.’ 
I placed my hand on her shoulder, over her quilt, and shook her gently. She didn’t move. 
Had she been drinking, too? Maybe those were drunk messages, I thought. Is that what made her call me to her room? She sounded pretty articulate though. 
Was she acting? Was it her way of making me wait? Or maybe even making me get into bed with her, without actually asking? My mind grappled with the alternatives. It was so hard to be a guy and choose what action to take with a girl sometimes. A part of me wanted to be bold and go for it. 
Slide into bed with her, kiss her happy birthday, that voice said. Okay, maybe not on the lips but on the forehead. Forehead kisses are fine, right? another voice said. 
No. Don’t ruin it. She’s called you over. Let her decide the pace, a counter-voice, total killjoy, said. 
With reluctance, I chose restraint. But acting or not, I had to wake her up. 
I shook Zara’s shoulder again, this time with more force. She didn’t budge. I pulled the quilt away from her face. She lay there still, as if in deep sleep. 
‘Okay, Zara, enough jokes. I came to wish you in person. Happy birthday.’ 
She didn’t react. 
‘Are you going to wake up?’ I said. 
No answer. 
‘Zara, I know what will work. I will slip into bed with you. That will make you wake up.’ My breath caught on a laugh. 
She still didn’t respond, so I bent to push her a bit, to make space for
me. It felt heavy. 
‘Zara,’ I said, this time my voice loud. ‘Are you okay?’ 
I touched her forehead. It felt ice-cold. My heart pounded hard. Something was wrong. I pulled the quilt down further from her face. Her neck had dark red marks on it. 
‘Zara, baby,’ I said. I touched her cheeks, eyes and ears in quick succession. Everything felt cold. 
‘Wake up,’ I said, I don’t know to whom in particular. I switched on the main light in the room. The light from the bright hundred-watt-bulb made me scrunch my eyes at first. However, it also let me see Zara clearly, lying absolutely still. 
‘Zara,’ I called out loud. I brought my fingers close to her nostrils. I felt nothing. I had seen in movies how they check someone’s pulse. I lifted up Zara’s thin, cold wrist. No pulse. I tried checking it a few more times. Nothing. 
Zara was … dead? 
I felt nauseous. I needed air. I stood up and pulled the window wide open. I looked down. Under the moonlight, I could make out Saurabh. He stood there, shifting his weight from one leg to the other. He noticed me at the window and waved to check what was going on. He pointed a finger down, suggesting I come back. I couldn’t respond. I tried to throw up but couldn’t. Confused, Saurabh threw up both his hands in exasperation. 
I turned back into the room. No, my Zara couldn’t have died. This was a bad dream. I stood still and stared at her body, hoping she would wake up. The phone vibrating in my pocket jolted me. I picked up Saurabh’s call. He spoke in a naughty, teasing voice. 
‘Bhai, what’s going on? You went back in. Getting lucky? Should I stay or leave?’ 
‘Saurabh,’ I said and stopped. 
‘Yes?’ 
‘Saurabh, come up.’ 
‘What?’ 
‘Just come up.’ 
‘Why are you calling me to your girlfriend’s, or ex-girlfriend’s, room?’ ‘I beg you, Saurabh, come up,’ I said, close to tears. He sensed something was wrong.
‘Will Zara be fine if I come up?’ 
‘Come,’ I said and hung up. I went to the window again. I pointed the phone flashlight at the tree trunk to help him. 
He looked around nervously and lifted a leg to climb. The mango tree creaked. They are designed for monkeys, after all, not overweight, ninety kilo humans. 
‘Careful. Now put the left foot on the next stump,’ I whispered as he reached closer. Fortunately, nobody heard the commotion on the tree this late at night. 
He placed his leg across the window. I pulled him in. 
‘What’s going on, bhai?’ he said. 
I shut the window and bolted it from inside. 
He saw her lying in bed. 
‘She’s sleeping?’ he whispered. ‘You haven’t woken her up yet?’ ‘She’s dead,’ I said. 
Saurabh jumped back a step. 
‘What?’ he screamed. 
‘Keep it quiet. It’s a girls’ hostel. Male voices should not be heard here.’ ‘Screw the male voice, bhai. What the hell are you talking about?’ Saurabh said, his volume rising higher, along with his blood pressure. I grabbed him by the neck and covered his mouth with my hand. He groaned. 
‘Please, keep quiet,’ I said. ‘You are freaking me out. Quiet, understood?’ 
Saurabh nodded, my hand still on his mouth. I released my grip. Saurabh coughed as he spoke again, this time in normal volume. ‘Are you sure?’ Saurabh said. ‘Maybe she isn’t well.’ 
‘She’s gone. Her body feels like ice. She isn’t breathing. Look at her face,’ I said. 
He noticed the red marks around her neck. 
‘How did she die?’ he whispered. 
‘How the hell do I know? This is how I found her.’ 
‘But she just messaged you,’ Saurabh said, pacing up and down the room. 
‘Yeah,’ I said. I opened my phone again. Yes, this wasn’t a dream. I had her messages. She missed me and wanted me to wish her in person. I sat
down on Zara’s study chair. I examined her face, as calm as a sleeping baby’s. The love of my life had died. But the shock of it all meant I couldn’t feel any pain. 
‘What do we do?’ Saurabh said. 
‘No clue,’ I said, ‘but sit down, please. You pacing is making me nervous.’ 
‘I am so scared,’ Saurabh said. I felt fear too. But I couldn’t have a meltdown like him. Someone had to think. 
‘I have never seen a dead body before,’ Saurabh said, as if I hung out with corpses all the time. ‘Bhai, do something.’ 
‘Shut up, Saurabh. I am thinking what to do. Do you have any ideas?’ ‘No, bhai. We should have never come here. We were happy at the booze party in our apartment. I said before itself that it is a terrible idea…’ He continued to rant, jamming my thoughts. I wanted to slap him, but couldn’t. Yes, he had tried to stop me from coming to her room, so I let him vent for five minutes. After that, more out of exhaustion than anything else, he sat on the wooden easy chair in the room. 
‘We have to inform someone,’ I said. ‘We have no choice.’ ‘How?’ Saurabh said. ‘What do we say we are doing here? In a girls’ hostel room. At this time in the morning. With the occupant dead.’ ‘So what do we do? Run away?’ 
‘Maybe. It’s still dark. Let’s leave the same way we came and vanish.’ I considered the idea. We sneak out, go back home, and pretend this never happened. However, something didn’t seem right about that option. ‘How did she die?’ I said. 
‘What?’ 
‘How did Zara die? She was alive an hour ago. Healthy.’ 
‘I don’t care, bhai. Right now, we need to get out. Fast.’ 
‘She wasn’t sick.’ 
‘Yeah, so?’ 
‘Someone killed her,’ I said. 
Saurabh sprang up from his seat. 
‘What?’ he said. ‘We are at a murder scene? Let’s leave, bhai. Now.’ He went to the window. 
‘We can’t leave like this, Golu. Sit down, please. Let’s think this through.’
With heavy steps he went back to the easy chair. 
‘Why stay? So people eventually find us? And assume we did it?’ he said. 
‘If we run away, they will definitely think we did it.’ 
‘How will they even know we came here?’ Saurabh said, wiping sweat off his face. ‘It’s still dark outside. Let’s go.’ 
‘You don’t understand. This is big. A PhD student murdered in an IIT hostel. Not only the insti, but the entire police and media will be all over this one.’ 
‘So?’ Saurabh clasped the armrests of the easy chair tight. 
‘So they will dig.’ 
‘Anyone could have done it. There are over a thousand students on the campus alone.’ 
‘But the main-gate guard might remember us. And, of course, the policemen at the checkpost might remember my bike too. And that we went into the campus.’ 
‘So what? We came for a ride at night.’ 
‘And they will search for fingerprints in the room. Mine are on the window. On the bed. Even on her face.’ 
‘Fingerprints?’ echoed Saurabh, his face white. 
‘Your prints are on the easy chair now,’ I said. He immediately released his grip on the armrests. 
‘Bhai, what is going on? Some Crime Patrol shit?’ he said and stood up. ‘Can’t we wipe everything and leave? I really want to leave.’ ‘We can’t, Golu.’ 
‘Our lives will be ruined.’ 
‘No, Golu. If we wipe fingerprints and flee, then we are ruined.’ ‘So what do we do?’ 
‘We stay and say the truth.’ 
‘That we drank a bottle of whisky, chose to ride drunk, dodged a cop, showed an invalid ID to the institute guard and climbed up into the girls’ hostel late at night. Are you insane, bhai?’ 
‘Those are bad things, yes. But that doesn’t make us murderers.’ ‘Murderers?’ Saurabh squeaked. ‘How can you even say that word? We haven’t done anything.’ 
‘I know. That’s why we need to stay. Now, who do we call first?’
I took out my phone. 
‘Are you sure, bhai? You are not exactly having the best ideas today.’ ‘If you want to leave, Saurabh, you can,’ I said. He didn’t have to be a part of this mess. 
‘I didn’t say that, bhai.’ 
‘I mean it. Whatever happens, there is going to be some trouble. You don’t have to be here.’ 
‘Didn’t we decide at our booze party that whatever we do, we do together?’ he said. I looked at him. In some ways, having a best friend is way more important than having a lover. 
‘I love you, man,’ I said. 
‘Me too, bhai. Who are you calling?’ 
‘Her parents, her boyfriend or the police. These are the choices.’ ‘Should we just walk down? We can find the watchman and tell him everything. Let him make the calls.’ 
I let out a huge breath. He did make sense. 
‘Not a bad idea. But,’ I paused. 
‘But what?’ 
‘But if we don’t call these people ourselves, they will find out we were here and never stop suspecting us. Let’s call them first and then go to the watchman.’ 
‘I have never called the police in my life,’ Saurabh said. 
‘Same here. I’ll call the police last.’ 
‘Parents?’ 
‘That will be hard too. Let me call that Raghu first.’ 
‘You have his number?’ 
‘Yeah,’ I said. 
He had called me a few times before, to tell me to stay away from Zara. I had saved his contact, to have some way of reaching Zara in case she blocked me. I checked the time. It was 3:36. I dialled his number. The phone rang. Nobody picked up. Eventually, I heard a service message in Telugu, perhaps telling me that the person could not be reached. I tried again. No response. 
‘Seems to be sleeping,’ I said. 
‘Call her dad,’ Saurabh said. 
I dialled Safdar Lone’s number. What would I say to him, I wondered.
Hi, uncle, sorry to bother you. It’s me, Keshav. Remember you said to stay away from your daughter? Well, I am in her room. Oh, and by the way, she is dead. 
‘Yes?’ Safdar said, his voice sleepy and angry at the same time. ‘Uncle, it’s me. Keshav.’ 
‘I know. Have you seen the time?’ 
‘3:38, uncle.’ 
‘What do you want?’ he said. 
‘Uncle, Zara…’ 
‘What?’ 
‘Mr Lone, Zara…’ 
‘You need to forget about Zara. I thought I made this clear years ago. Are you drunk again?’ 
I was drunk, sort of. Most of my high had vanished though. ‘Uncle, please listen to me, it’s important,’ I said, trying to collect my thoughts. 
‘What?’ 
I couldn’t break the news. 
‘Can you please come to Zara’s hostel? Now.’ 
‘What? Why?’ 
‘Please. It’s important. Come right now. I am here.’ 
‘Wha…’ 
I cut the call. I don’t know why, but speaking to her father made everything more real. Zara had died. Gone. No, I couldn’t go to pieces. Not right now. I had more calls to make. 
‘Police,’ I said out loud, ‘what’s their number?’ 
‘100?’ Saurabh said. 
‘That’s the general number. Should we call the local police station?’ ‘You mean the same guys who just chased us?’ Saurabh said. ‘Shut up,’ I said. I Googled the Hauz Khas police station number on my phone and called them. 
Someone picked up after five rings. 
‘Hauz Khas police,’ a tired voice said on the other side. 
‘We are calling to report a crime,’ I said. 
Saurabh looked at me with a worried expression. 
‘Where are you calling from?’
‘IIT Delhi. Himadri hostel. Room 105,’ I said. 
‘Nature of crime?’ the voice said in a monotonous tone. 
‘Murder. Of a student.’ 
I heard something drop at the other end. 
‘Who is speaking?’ the voice said, now alert. 
‘This is Keshav Rajpurohit. I will be waiting here for you. At the entrance of Himadri hostel, IIT Delhi.’ 
‘Who’s the victim and what’s your relationship?’ 
‘Zara Lone. I am her friend and an ex-student.’ 
‘Please stay there. We are sending a team,’ the voice said briskly. I ended the call. Saurabh and I looked at each other. 
‘Let’s wait downstairs?’ Saurabh said. He just wanted to be out of the room, and away from the dead body. 
‘Yeah,’ I said. I stood up and opened the door to the dark and empty corridor outside. Saurabh walked out of the room. I remained inside. ‘What? Let’s go,’ Saurabh said. 
‘Wait. Just one minute,’ I said, turning back. I walked up to her bed. I leaned forward and kissed her forehead. A teardrop fell on her cold face. ‘Happy birthday, Zara. I love you.’ 
Zara remained still. 
‘Bhai,’ Saurabh said and knocked on the door, ‘let’s go.’ ‘Coming,’ I said. I straightened up, looked at her one more time, and then left the room.
Chapter 6 
We went down the steps to the main entrance of Himadri. Seeing us emerge from the hostel, the watchman jumped up from his chair looking stupefied. ‘Stop. Who are you?’ he said. 
‘Watchman sahib,’ I said, ‘we want to talk to you.’ 
‘What are you doing inside the girls’ hostel?’ he said. 
‘Listen to us, watchman sahib,’ I said, ‘someone has died.’ ‘What?’ he said, his mouth open. 
Before I could say more, I heard police sirens. The Hauz Khas police was more efficient than I had expected. A Delhi Police Maruti Gypsy entered the hostel compound. An IIT Delhi security patrol car followed it. Three cops stepped out of the Gypsy. One of them wore a police cap and his uniform had epaulettes. Seemingly the senior-most in the group, he walked up to us. I read his name tag: Vikas Rana. Two constables and four IIT Delhi security officers walked behind him. The watchman almost collapsed. 
‘Who is Keshav Rajpurohit?’ Inspector Rana said in a rough baritone. ‘I am Keshav, sir,’ I said, extending a hand. He ignored it. 
‘You called us?’ 
‘Yes, sir,’ I said. ‘I found my friend, Zara Lone, dead. Room number 105.’ 
The security officers looked at me, shocked. 
‘Who are you?’ one of the security officers said. ‘A student?’ ‘Ex-student,’ I said. ‘2013 batch. Kumaon hostel.’ 
‘2013?’ said the same security officer. ‘What are you doing here now?’ ‘I came to visit her,’ I said and added, ‘It’s her birthday.’ 
‘But how can you come into the girls’ hostel?’ His voice got louder. ‘Can we not waste time and examine the body, please?’ Inspector Rana said.

A constable used a handkerchief to open the door of Zara’s room. ‘Careful,’ Inspector Rana said, ‘there could be fingerprints.’ Saurabh and I looked at each other. The only fingerprints they might find on the door handle would be ours. 
The police entered the room. Zara, or Zara’s body, lay there, quilt removed and the room lights on. 
‘Don’t touch anything,’ Inspector Rana warned. 
We already have, inspector, I wanted to say. One of the constables took pictures of the body, on his phone. He said something about the official photographer not being available at such an odd hour. 
Inspector Rana walked up to the bed. He examined Zara’s neck. ‘Not a suicide. Someone strangled her.’ 
A gust of cold air from the open door accompanied his words. Everyone fell silent until one of the security officers spoke again. 
‘How did this happen, Laxman?’ he said, addressing the watchman. Watchman Laxman folded his hands. 
‘No idea, sahib.’ 
‘Did you see anyone come in?’ the security officer barked at him. ‘Nobody. I was on duty throughout.’ 
‘Did you sleep off or leave your post?’ the security patrol officer shouted, to reclaim his authority and show the police he meant business too. Watchman Laxman shook his head. His body seemed to shrink, and not because of the cold. 
‘Tell me, honestly. You know I can check CCTV footage of the entrance,’ the patrol officer said. 
The patrol officer had to deflect blame too. For, despite all his patrolling and supervision, someone had come in and murdered a student. ‘No, sahib, I was on duty. Awake,’ Laxman said. 
‘So how did two-two men get inside the hostel then?’ the security officer said, pointing at Saurabh and me. Laxman had nothing to say. The patrol officer slapped him. I guess he had to display his toughness to the police. 
‘Stop it,’ Inspector Rana said. ‘Don’t do our job.’ 
‘Sorry, sir,’ the patrol officer said. He looked ashamed at being shouted
at in front of his juniors. Perhaps he had wanted to be an investigating officer in the police too. People want to grow up and become cops. Nobody dreams about guarding an engineering college full of nerds. 
‘You couldn’t prevent the crime, now at least let us investigate it,’ Inspector Rana said. 
The patrol officer hung his head low. 
‘Sorry, sir.’ 
Inspector Rana ignored him. He walked around the room, saw Zara’s phone. He disconnected the charger and lifted the handset with a handkerchief. He passed it to a constable who put it in a plastic bag. He checked the documents on her desk. He couldn’t make any sense of the quant equations related to big data model simulation, Zara’s PhD topic. He dropped the papers back on the desk and walked up to the window. It was bolted shut. 
‘The window is closed, the murderer entered from the door,’ he said. Despite not wanting to get into trouble, I had to speak up. 
‘Sir, the window was open,’ I said. ‘That is how Saurabh and I came in. We closed it when we went down to inform the watchman.’ The inspector turned towards me. 
‘Who are you really? And this fat guy? How and why are you here?’ ‘Sir, I can explain everything,’ I said. 
Over the next few minutes, I told everyone how Saurabh and I had ended up here. 
‘And so I asked Saurabh to come up. And we decided to call the police,’ I finished my story. 
I looked at everyone’s faces. No one appeared convinced. The patrol officer seemed most offended, less at the murder, more at my audacity. ‘You climbed into the IIT girls’ hostel? An outsider? Who do you think you are?’ 
‘Sorry, sir,’ I said, ‘it was a mistake. But…’ 
Inspector Rana walked up real close to me, eyes inches from mine. After staring at me for what seemed liked an eternity, he turned to Saurabh. ‘Is your friend telling the truth?’ 
Saurabh spoke like Ranbir Kapoor in the film Jagga Jasoos. ‘Ye … ye … yes, sir.’ 
‘So why is your voice shaking?’ Inspector Rana said. 
‘Ju … ju … just like that, sir.’
‘Are you sure you guys didn’t kill her?’ Rana said. I felt the ground beneath me shift a little. Were we suspects? 
‘No, sir,’ I blurted out, ‘I swear on my mother.’ 
The inspector’s eyes bored into mine. 
‘Maadarchod, every murderer will swear on his mother if it helps him get away.’ 
‘No, sir, but…’ I said, shocked by his language. 
‘Shut up,’ he said. He turned to the constable. ‘Bring them to the police station.’ 
‘Sir, you—’ But Inspector Rana interrupted me. 
‘Take the watchman’s statement too. Get the entrance CCTV footage. Anyone informed her parents?’ 
‘I did, sir. Her father is coming,’ I said. 
Saurabh tugged at my hand, suggesting I keep my mouth shut. One of the constables marked the area and took more pictures while Saurabh and I stood silently in a corner. The patrol officer stepped out to call the IIT director as the cops rummaged around her room. 
‘What’s happening here? Where’s Zara?’ Safdar Lone’s voice startled everyone in the room. 

Police stations in India are a good way to time travel. If you want to see Indian life in the Seventies, with no computers and tons of brown paper files, a police station is a good place to visit. Of course, the Hauz Khas station had a bit of modernity too. They had two computers, both with fat CRT monitors. They ran on Windows software from the Nineties. At nine in the morning, the station was jam-packed with people, as if the police were distributing free 10 GB data cards. Lack of sleep and last night’s alcohol had already given me a headache. The cacophony in the station made the pain worse. 
Saurabh and I sat separately, as we had been told. They didn’t want us to talk and concoct a fake story. As if we couldn’t WhatsApp each other from across the room, if we wanted to do that. 
I waited for several hours. Inspector Rana finally called me into his office, a ramshackle room in which the desk and two chairs barely fit. I sat down in front of him and yawned. He continued to read a file, one
eye still on me. 
‘Sleepy? 
‘A little,’ I said. 
‘Go wash your face.’ 
‘It’s fine.’ 
He threw me a stern glance. 
‘Do as I say,’ he said. I complied. I splashed filthy water from a filthy tap in a filthy bathroom on my face. I returned to his office and sat down again, my eyes open extra wide. 
‘I had to make you wait outside. The other option was lockup. I am sure you didn’t want to spend the night there.’ 
I imagined myself behind bars, and my parents finding out. They would yell at me more than any cop would. No, not that option. 
‘No, sir. Outside is fine.’ 
‘Though behind bars is where you belong, if you actually killed her.’ ‘I did not, sir. Honest.’ 
‘I need more than that to be sure.’ 
‘I love her, sir. More than you’ll ever know. Zara is … was … my world. Why would I kill her?’ 
‘Because you couldn’t get her?’ 
‘No, sir, I did. She messaged me herself.’ 
I passed my phone to him. He read my last WhatsApp chat with Zara. ‘Ask anyone in my batch. They will tell you what it would mean to me if Zara herself wanted to get back with me,’ I said. 
The inspector scrolled through the chat a few times. I continued to talk. ‘I called the police, sir. I called her father. I even tried to call her boyfriend.’ 
‘Wait. Boyfriend?’ he interrupted me. 
‘Yes, Raghu. He didn’t pick up. It was late. He lives in Hyderabad.’ ‘Give me his number.’ 
‘It’s on my phone, Raghu Venkatesh.’ 
The inspector noted down Raghu’s contact details. A constable came to his door. 
‘The father took Zara Lone’s body home,’ the constable said. ‘What the hell! How so soon?’ Inspector Rana looked put off. ‘Father is a big shot. Maybe used his connections,’ the constable said.
‘Where do her parents live?’ 
‘Westend Greens. Near the Shiv statue on the Delhi border,’ the constable said. 
‘Rich girl,’ the inspector scoffed. ‘Speak to them about a post-mortem, please.’ 
‘I checked. Father declined. Too disturbed,’ the constable said. ‘Sir, you know these Muslim people. Their religion doesn’t permit cutting up dead bodies. We put too much pressure, there will only be more drama.’ 
‘How will we solve the case if they don’t let us do an autopsy?’ Inspector Rana screamed. 
The other man didn’t answer. He took that as a cue to leave. Rana turned to me after the constable had left the room. 
‘You loved her. Why are you not sad?’ Rana said. 
‘I don’t know, sir,’ I said. ‘I know she is gone but I cannot believe it, cannot accept it. It is like I will wake up soon and…’ 
‘It has happened. Zara Lone is dead. And you may have killed her. Found on the crime scene. Smelling of alcohol.’ 
‘No, sir, it’s not like that.’ 
‘Former lover unable to get over her. She called you. You forced yourself on her. She declined. You couldn’t take it.’ 
‘I didn’t,’ I roared. Then in a more sober voice, ‘I mean. I didn’t. I just went to wish her happy birthday.’ 
The stress finally made me cave in. Tears spilled from my eyes. I began to cry. Zara had died. I would never see her again. I wouldn’t hear her voice. I couldn’t message her or see her status, scraps I had lived on for the last few years. Worse, the police thought I had killed her. They could make me spend the rest of my already miserable life in jail. I folded my hands. 
‘I haven’t done it, Rana sir. I could never do it.’ 
‘So who did it? And stop crying. What a baby.’ 
‘I don’t know.’ I composed myself. 
The inspector picked up the intercom. Another constable came in. ‘Any luck with the girl’s phone?’ 
‘It’s a locked iPhone, sir. We don’t know the passcode.’ 
‘It has touch ID, right? The thumb one?’ 
‘Yes, sir.’ 
‘So use the dead girl’s hand to open it.’
The constable scratched his head. ‘When the phone is switched on the first time, you have to enter the numeric passcode, sir.’ 
‘Did some idiot in the station switch the phone off?’ 
‘No, no, sir. It seems like the phone was switched off, kept for charging, and switched back on.’ 
‘So we can’t unlock the phone?’ 
‘No, sir. It is a six-digit code. It will lock forever after ten failed tries.’ ‘These stupid phone companies. Call the service provider. Get call logs.’ ‘Already done, sir.’ 
‘Did anyone call the girl’s phone today? It rings, right?’ 
‘Two missed calls, sir. From a contact called Raghu Cutie Pie.’ ‘I will call him right away. You check the location of Raghu Cutie Pie last night from the cell tower.’ 
‘Sure, sir,’ the constable said. 
The inspector turned to me. 
‘Wait outside, Keshav,’ he said. ‘I can hold off on an FIR for a while, but you can’t leave the station.’ 
‘I won’t, sir, I promise.’ 
‘Sleep on the floor outside. Find a corner.’ 
‘I can rest on the chair. But, sir, one thing.’ 
‘What?’ 
‘You are calling Raghu. May I stay and listen to this call?’ ‘Why?’ 
‘I don’t know. Just curious.’ 
‘Oh, you are a detective now?’ 
‘I found the body. I knew her. Of course, I am curious. Plus, maybe I can help you.’ 
The inspector shrugged; he didn’t care. He dialled Raghu’s number and put the call on speaker. 
‘Hello, good morning,’ a lady answered. Her voice had a Telugu accent. ‘Hello, is Mr Raghu Venkatesh there?’ Rana said. 
‘Wait, one minute aan, doctor is inspecting him. I pass phone to him. Who is calling, please?’ 
‘I am Inspector Vikas Rana this side. Who’s speaking?’ 
‘Nurse Janie, sir. I looking after Raghu sir here.’ 
‘Where?’
‘Apollo Hospital, sir. Wait aan, I give phone to him.’ 
We heard her speak in Telugu to someone. After a few seconds Raghu came on the line. 
‘Hello?’ Raghu said. 
‘Hello, Mr Raghu, Inspector Vikas Rana from Hauz Khas police station speaking. Can you talk?’ 
‘Yes, sir.’ 
‘Have you heard the news?’ 
‘What news, sir?’ 
‘Do you know Zara Lone? A friend of yours.’ 
‘My fiancée, sir,’ Raghu said. 
‘Oh. I am sorry, Mr Raghu. We found Zara’s body in her room. She’s no more.’ 
The phone went silent. 
‘Mr Raghu?’ Rana said. 
‘What?’ Raghu said after a few seconds. 
‘Your friend, or fiancée. She was found dead in her room. We think she was murdered.’ 
‘Are you serious? Who is this? Did you send those men too?’ Raghu said, fear in his voice. 
‘Which men? This is the police. We have her phone. You gave her two missed calls today. One at 8:14 in the morning, and the other at 8:32.’ We heard a fumbling sound as Raghu checked his phone. He spoke again. 
‘I can’t … sorry, I can’t believe this.’ 
‘Her parents have her body. You can call them.’ 
‘Yes, I will, right now,’ Raghu said. ‘This is not … I can’t … sorry, I am unable to talk.’ 
‘I understand. This has been a shock to you.’ 
‘It’s Zara’s birthday today,’ he said, his breathing audible over the phone. ‘Our wedding is in two months.’ 
The word ‘wedding’ made my chest hurt. I looked away from the inspector. 
‘Sorry, Mr Raghu. We can’t bring her back. But we will do our best to find out who did it.’ 
‘Why would anyone want to hurt Zara?’ Raghu said.
‘Do you know anyone who might?’ 
‘Some people attacked me three days ago. I thought it was a local gang extorting money.’ 
‘Really? Who? When?’ the inspector said. He took out a notebook to write it all down. 
‘Three goons. Late at night. Right outside my office in Cyber City. They came on bikes and hit me with hockey sticks. Broke the windows of my car. I managed to scream, otherwise they would have hurt me more.’ ‘Are you injured?’ 
‘A head wound. And a fracture in my arm.’ 
The inspector took down notes furiously. 
‘Is that why you are in hospital?’ 
‘Yeah. I am in Apollo. I planned to be there for her birthday … and…’ he paused. We heard sobs on the phone. Raghu, my biggest enemy in life, was crying. Yet I didn’t feel good about it. The inspector let Raghu cry for a while before he spoke again. 
‘I can see you are disturbed. I will hang up now but we may have to talk later. Take care.’ 
The inspector ended the call. 
The cop who had come earlier was back. 
‘Sir, phone records will come tomorrow. However, they confirmed Mr Raghu’s cell tower location in Hyderabad last night.’ 
‘Yeah, he is admitted in a hospital there,’ Rana said and turned to me. ‘Are you going to sit in my office like a jamaai all day? Go, wait outside.’ ‘Of course, sir,’ I said, and stood up to leave the room.
Chapter 7 
Click! Flash! Click! Click! The flashes, the camera clicks and the loud journalists screaming for my attention disoriented me. At noon on the day of Zara’s death, reporters from every publication and TV channel in Delhi had descended on the Hauz Khas police station. Around thirty journalists had crowded the station entrance. Through bits and pieces, they tried to figure out what had happened. Inspector Rana refused to talk to anyone. No constable would dare to speak to the media without permission either. Around noon, when I stepped out of the police station to get something to eat, reporters bombarded me. 
‘Are you Keshav Rajpurohit?’ said one. 
I gave a brief nod. The reporters went into a frenzy. They jostled with each other to shove their mikes closest to my face. 
‘Did you find the dead body?’ said another. 
‘Did you break into the girls’ hostel?’ yet another wanted to know. ‘Are you her ex-boyfriend?’ came one more question. 
Dazed, I didn’t know what to say and whom to speak to first. ‘Please, let me go,’ I said. ‘I haven’t done anything. I don’t know anything.’ 
I don’t know why I had to say that. It only fanned the flames further. The questions became louder and more intrusive. 
‘Are you saying you might be considered a suspect?’ 
‘No,’ I said, ‘nothing like that. When did I say that?’ 
‘Were you still having physical relations with Zara Lone?’ said one reporter, who was wearing thick-lensed glasses. I wanted to sock his spectacled face. I had to control myself. If I hit a journalist in a police station it wouldn’t help my case. I gritted my teeth. 
‘I need to step out, let me go,’ I said. 
‘Did you murder Zara Lone, Mr Keshav Rajpurohit?’ the spectacled
reporter asked next. 
‘No!’ I screamed. Unable to move ahead, I turned around and ran back into the police station. I could stay hungry. I just didn’t want to be eaten alive. 
I went up to Saurabh, ignoring the inspector’s instructions to stay away. He was snoozing on a wooden bench. My brain had officially stopped functioning. It didn’t feel sorrow, fear or even tiredness. I couldn’t sleep like Saurabh. I saw a TV perched on a dusty shelf, high on the wall opposite me. It was running a particular news channel. After a few ads, the channel flashed the ‘Breaking News’ sign. 
‘Kashmiri Muslim girl murdered in IIT Delhi hostel’. 
A reporter stood in front of the IIT gate, right next to the security checkpost where I had shown my outdated ID card. 
I could see a dozen other reporters parked outside the gate as well; the director must have denied entry to the media. Only shots of the IIT Delhi sign on the main gate were being shown. 
The volume was very low, so I walked up close to the TV to listen. One finger in his ear, the reporter spoke to the anchor, Arijit, in the studio. ‘Arijit, so far what we know is the victim is Zara Lone, a PhD student at IIT Delhi. She was found murdered in her room, number 105 at Himadri hostel, around three in the morning. It seems her ex-boyfriend, who is also an ex-IIT Delhi student, broke into her room to wish her on her birthday, which was today, and found her dead.’ 
‘Wait a minute,’ Anchor Arijit said, pen in hand. ‘Did you just say her ex-boyfriend broke into her room?’ 
‘Yes, Arijit. His name is Keshav Rajpurohit. He graduated around five years ago. Zara Lone and he were in a relationship then. Incidentally, Zara finished her graduation from Delhi College of Engineering and then joined IIT Delhi for a PhD programme, so she remained on campus. However, Keshav and Zara’s relationship, sources tell us, was over a while ago.’ 
I was famous. I was being talked about on TV, but not like one of those IIT guys who open billion-dollar startups, become CEOs or launch political parties. My claim to fame was breaking into girls’ hostels. 
‘But can you elaborate on breaking into the room?’ Arijit said. ‘Boys are not allowed in IIT girls’ hostels?’ 
‘Well, yes, IIT Delhi has a strict policy of not allowing men into girls’
rooms. So Keshav came in through the window by climbing a mango tree. Unfortunately, we were not allowed into the campus, so we can’t show you the mango tree.’ 
Of course, it was unfortunate. The country could not see the mango tree. Or the mangoes that grew on it. 
‘Go on.’ Arijit shook his head, so bothered by it all that his neck was coming loose. 
‘So he climbed into the room to wish her and found her dead. Then he informed the police and her parents. That’s his version.’ 
‘Exactly, that is his version. Now, what are the police doing?’ ‘I think it is too soon. But Keshav is at the Hauz Khas police station. He seems to be in a daze, or maybe even angry, we have some visuals.’ Suddenly, I was on screen, looking every inch a psycho. 
‘No!’ I was screaming. They played my ‘no’ on loop five times, like they do in TV serials. 
‘I must add,’ the reporter said, ‘we are hearing that Keshav Rajpurohit is from Rajasthan, and his father, Naman Rajpurohit, is a senior RSS member there. It’s a politically connected family.’ 
What? Why is that a must add? I touched my earring. Why did my parents have to come into this? I checked my pockets. I couldn’t find my phone. I had left it on the chair I had been sitting on in the police station. Fortunately, I found it in the same place I had left it. I guess nobody would steal from a police station. I had ten missed calls from home. Four from Chandan Arora. Two from Sexy Sheela, who must have called me on behalf of Chandan. Before I could call them back, I heard my name on TV again. 
‘So have the police arrested Keshav Rajpurohit? Or are his political connections helping him?’ Arijit said. 
What the hell, I thought. Why should I be arrested? And what political connections had I used here? I didn’t want my father to ever find out about this. The reporter continued to speak. 
‘No, Arijit, no arrests so far. Keshav is cooperating with the police or being detained, we don’t know yet. According to the police, they are looking at several angles. They will try to talk to other hostel-mates soon.’ 
‘But why haven’t they arrested the ex-boyfriend? Or anyone?’ Arijit said, incensed. 
Because I freaking didn’t do anything! Ten minutes since the story had
broken on TV, and this guy wanted someone arrested. Thankfully, what the reporter said to this was even spicier than Arijit’s ex-boyfriend theory. ‘See, Arijit, we are also hearing, though there is no way to confirm it, that there could be a terrorism angle here. You see, Zara Lone was Kashmiri, and a Muslim.’ 
Of course, being a Kashmiri Muslim is definitely a you see kind of situation. It puts you on the terrorism radar immediately. Within seconds, to my relief, Arijit had forgotten me. 
‘A Kashmiri Muslim girl. Killed under mysterious circumstances. Is this part of a deeper conspiracy?’ Arijit questioned no one in particular. ‘We don’t know that yet, Arijit,’ the reporter said humbly. 
Arijit didn’t appreciate this kind of a non-committal answer. He leaned forward, even closer to the camera. ‘Ladies and gentleman, we have a big story here, and your channel has been the first to show it.’ 
That was a lie. I had seen thirty reporters at the police station itself. Everyone had covered the story at the same time. 
‘The big question, before we go into the break, ladies and gentleman, is this,’ Arijit said, speaking each word with deliberation, like his own life depended on this case. ‘Has terror reached India’s elite institutes?’ 
An ad for Patanjali toothpaste, made from herbs used by rishis two thousand years ago, replaced the murder story. In the ad, rishis meditated peacefully, thinking of toothpaste formulations perhaps. In contrast to the anchor of the news show they sponsored, Patanjali’s toothpaste models had an immensely calm air. The ad ended with Baba Ramdev’s picture. I have never been happier to see Baba Ramdev’s grin. I just didn’t want the channel to go back to Zara. 
Of course, nobody cared about what I wanted. Within minutes, Arijit was back, this time with something he called ‘an esteemed’ panel. Six people —socialites, ex-cops, somebody who ran a think-tank on Kashmir and a retired IIT professor—occupied six little windows on the TV screen. How do news channels do this? How do they line up so many jobless people from different areas of expertise so fast? 
Arijit had his own window, double the size of the others. He opened the discussion. ‘The question is this, my esteemed panel, has extremism reached our elite shores? Could there be a terror angle here? And does this case also show that nobody is safe in Delhi?’
‘I don’t know about the terror part,’ the Kashmiri think-tank guy started to say before the socialite lady with a bindi the size of a ten-rupee coin out shouted him. 
‘Forget terror! My question is, Arijit, what is the institute security doing? What are the Delhi Police doing? Hauz Khas is a posh area. If that is not safe, what is? Is this a national capital or a crime capital?’ 
‘Exactly! If even the rich are not safe, what are the police doing?’ Arijit said. 
The ex-cop said something about at least giving the police a chance to investigate. The socialite lady shut him up. The ex-IIT professor never spoke a word. 
‘Come, Rana sir has called you,’ a constable came up to me and shook me by my shoulder. 

‘Your parents called. They are trying to reach you,’ Rana said. His voice seemed calmer than before. 
‘Sorry, I had kept my phone away,’ I said. Anyway, I wanted to avoid them as much as possible. 
‘They are on their way from Alwar. Should be here in a few hours.’ ‘Damn,’ I said. 
‘What?’ 
‘Nothing.’ 
‘Call your friend here as well. Let’s talk.’ 
I went out and woke up Saurabh. Both of us went back to Inspector Rana’s office. 
‘This case is big. National news,’ Rana said. 
‘I know, sir,’ I said. 
‘What? How?’ 
‘I saw on TV. The reporters,’ I said. 
‘For your own sake, stay away from the reporters.’ 
‘I didn’t speak to them, sir. They crowded around me when I went out to eat. I ran right back in.’ 
‘Have you eaten anything since morning?’ 
Saurabh shook his head vigorously. Inspector Rana asked a peon to get
us snacks. He came back with two cups of tea and aloo pakoras. The inspector ordered us to eat. I took slow bites as he spoke again. ‘Your father spoke to me. He is, what, RSS pradhan sevak in Rajasthan?’ 
‘One of the state pranth pracharaks.’ 
‘Yeah. He also spoke to the south Delhi MP. Hauz Khas comes in the south Delhi area.’ 
I now knew the reason for Rana’s new tone, not to mention the tea and snacks. The only way to make power behave in India is, well, more power. ‘I won’t go easy on you because of your political contacts. If at all, I will be more strict,’ he said, as if reading my mind. 
‘Of course, sir. But we really are innocent,’ Saurabh said, his first words since morning. 
‘Innocence alone can set you free,’ the inspector said. ‘The case is on TV. If media says police went soft due to the accused’s connections, I am in trouble.’ 
Was I the accused? No, I wasn’t, right? 
‘Sir? Accused?’ I said, bewildered. 
‘I mean if you were the accused. Circumstantial evidence is there. But, luckily, we have some more information now that could help you.’ ‘What?’ both Saurabh and I spoke in unison, adding belatedly, ‘sir.’ ‘According to the campus register, you entered the campus on your Enfield bike at 3:14. It means the earliest you could be in Zara’s room is 3:20.’ 
‘Yes, sir. That’s when I reached. My bike is still parked on campus.’ ‘And you called her parents at 3:38 and the police at 3:40. The police arrived at 3:52 and we saw the body at 3:54.’ 
‘Right, sir,’ I said. I didn’t understand why he was mentioning so many different timings. 
‘So, let’s say you arrived at 3:20 and killed her, say, by 3:35.’ ‘I didn’t, sir.’ 
‘Shut up and listen.’ 
‘Yes, sir.’ 
‘So, say, you killed her at 3:35. I saw the body at 3:54. Well, I am no post-mortem expert, but I have seen enough bodies in my life. That body didn’t look like it had died twenty minutes ago. It felt a lot more stiff and
cold.’ 
I heaved a sigh of relief. 
‘I know, sir. She was dead when I reached. Cold to touch.’ ‘Well, an autopsy would have helped us more. Her parents didn’t allow it.’ Rana laced his fingers together. 
‘Why?’ I said. 
‘Religious reasons? Who the hell knows? They say they want to give her a proper burial. In autopsy, we do cut up the body. But we also stitch it back, but the parents won’t listen.’ 
Saurabh and I kept quiet. The inspector spoke again. 
‘Anyway, I have sent a coroner. Hopefully, they allow him to do an external examination. He may have something to report.’ 
He opened his notes. 
‘There’s no injury other than strangulation marks on the neck. No sexual assault or rape as far as we could make out.’ 
It was amazing he could talk about dead bodies and sexual assault like we discussed trigonometry and algebra at the coaching centre. ‘We have taken statements from some of her hostel-mates. Was it a holiday on campus?’ 
‘Could be. A week-long mid-term break. We used to have one in February,’ I said. 
‘Yeah, not too many people in the hostel. In her wing, only three other girls were present. The rest have gone home.’ 
‘Right, sir,’ Saurabh said. 
‘There’s CCTV footage from the hostel entrance. We are going through it. We have asked for Zara’s phone records. We checked the fiancé’s cell tower location already. We even spoke to him. I haven’t slept all night. Aren’t we doing our best?’ the inspector said. One minute I was an accused. The next, I was expected to behave like a supportive spouse. ‘Yes, you are, sir,’ I said, ‘doing your best.’ 
‘So why are they flashing “Clueless Delhi Police” on TV?’ He pounded both his fists on the table. ‘What are we supposed to do? Go into everyone’s home every night so nothing bad ever happens? How can we prevent crime? We can only solve it, right?’ 
‘Right,’ I said, mainly because that’s what I thought he wanted to hear. ‘And it takes time. There’s no app to solve a murder, is there?’
‘Not yet,’ Saurabh said. Damn you Saurabh, did you have to say that, I cursed inwardly. The inspector looked at Saurabh, who stared at the floor. ‘No, sir,’ I said. 
‘They want us to arrest someone. Right now. If I arrest no one, we are lazy. If I arrest all the people I suspect, I am confused and brutal. What am I supposed to do, for heaven’s sake?’ 
I really tried to think about what he could do besides not yelling. ‘I don’t know, sir,’ I said, ‘maybe ignore the news.’ 
‘I can ignore it. But the netas don’t. And my seniors report to the netas. And those seniors come after me.’ 
Inspector Rana’s phone rang, interrupting his rant. I supposed that, even though you did get to beat up people and that could be fun, it wasn’t easy to be a police officer after all. 
‘Yes. Okay,’ Rana said on the phone and paused. ‘Good. You sure? You saw the full footage? What time? 2:02 to 
2:41 a.m. Okay, good.’ 
The inspector stepped away from us. He took a few notes while still on the phone. He came back to us after the call. 
‘So, I was talking about speaking to your father earlier. I respect him. A gentleman. He never tried to threaten or use influence.’ 
‘Right, sir. He would never do that.’ Especially for a useless son like me, I wanted to add, but didn’t. 
‘And I do want to give him good news when he arrives.’ 
‘Which is?’ 
‘That you are not the main suspect.’ 
Main suspect? I didn’t want to be even a non-main suspect. ‘Right, sir,’ I said, wondering how long it would be before my parents arrived. 
‘The watchman was away from his post. 2:02 to 2:41 a.m. Confirmed from CCTV footage.’ 
‘Oh,’ I said, ‘so someone entered the hostel then?’ 
‘Could be. But there’s more,’ Inspector Rana said, a glint in his eye. ‘What?’ Saurabh said. 
‘Zara Lone had a big fight with this same watchman, Laxman Reddy, one month ago. She slapped him in the lobby. In front of several girls.’ ‘Really? Why?’ I said.
‘That I don’t know. But we will find out. See, I told you we are good.’ ‘Yes, sir. Just out of curiosity, who told you about the fight?’ I said. The inspector picked up his notes. 
‘Ruchika Gill, fourth-year student at Himadri hostel. Room 109. Another girl, Subhadra Pande, room 203, also confirms this. My sub inspector just finished talking to them. My team is working hard on the case. And we have probably solved it. The stupid media will never highlight this.’ I remained quiet. The inspector stood up. 
‘Biren,’ he shouted. A constable came running in. 
‘Huzoor,’ he said. 
‘Is that Laxman Reddy here?’ 
‘Ji, huzoor. He is sleeping on a chair outside.’ 
‘Slap him twice to wake him up. Send him in.’ 
‘Ji, huzoor,’ he said and left, overjoyed at the idea of officially getting a chance to use his authority on someone. 
The inspector turned to us. 
‘Wait outside. Sorry. You still can’t leave.’ 
Saurabh and I stood up. As we walked out of the room, we saw Laxman walk in, spine bent, hands folded. 
The sound of loud slaps reached us as Rana welcomed Laxman into his office.
Chapter 8 
‘Keshav. Keshav beta,’ I heard my mother’s voice as I woke up. I looked around to orient myself. Despite the noisy police station, I had finally fallen asleep on a bench. The clock in front of me showed four o’clock. ‘Maa,’ I said and rubbed my eyes. ‘When did you arrive?’ 
‘Just now. What happened? Why are you here?’ she said. 
‘Where’s papa?’ I said. 
‘There.’ She pointed towards Inspector Rana’s office. My father stepped out of Inspector Rana’s room just then and walked over to me. ‘We called you ten times. You didn’t even call us back once,’ he said. ‘Sorry, papa,’ I said, ‘I just…’ 
Before I could finish my sentence, I broke down. My father, unaffected, wiped his face with a handkerchief. My mother hugged me to her. Nothing had ever felt better in my entire life. I wanted to be in my childhood room and have her put me to bed. 
‘Why are you creating a scene in the police station?’ my father said. ‘Sorry, papa,’ I said, extricating myself from my mother’s arms. I wiped my tears. Others in the police station threw me sympathetic glances, perhaps thinking I was about to go to jail for a long time. 
‘What were you up to? We thought you were taking tuitions while looking for a job.’ 
It wasn’t the right time to correct my father and tell him that I did have a job. I worked as faculty at a coaching institute, which sounds way better than ‘taking tuitions’. 
‘I didn’t do anything wrong, papa, I swear on you and maa.’ ‘You broke into a girls’ hostel. Drunk. All our friends and relatives know this. The whole country knows this.’ 
‘I mean, I didn’t kill anyone, papa. I didn’t hurt anyone.’ 
‘Big favour you did. Thank you, son. Thank you for not being a
murderer.’ 
‘That’s not what I meant, papa.’ I started to cry again. ‘I swear I didn’t know this would go so wrong.’ 
‘That Muslim girl,’ my father said in a savage tone. ‘She spelt trouble from day one. I told you years ago. I thought you ended it.’ ‘Yes, we had.’ 
‘Then? You lost your brain again? Going back to her! Wasn’t the shame you caused me last time enough?’ 
‘You are shouting, Rajpurohit ji,’ maa said. ‘Please let’s discuss this later. Can we leave? Come, beta, let’s go home.’ 
‘I can’t leave,’ I said. ‘Inspector told me I can’t leave.’ 
‘He agreed. I had to beg him,’ my father said. 
‘Why did you have to beg?’ I said. ‘They know I didn’t do anything.’ ‘They can still keep you. You and your friend better thank him before we go.’ My father pointed to the inspector’s room. 

‘So,’ the inspector said, spinning his mobile phone on his table, ‘you are lucky.’ 
Saurabh and I nodded. We had resolved to keep our mouths shut. ‘The watchman. We have enough against him to make an arrest.’ Saurabh nodded again. The inspector continued. 
‘The media will be satisfied now, hopefully. Arrest within twenty-four hours. Not bad, no?’ 
I kept nodding. 
‘You can go now. But there are some conditions. Agreed?’ We kept quiet. 
‘Agreed or not?’ he shouted. 
I guess like those websites that make you click on ‘agree’ without reading the terms, we had to do the same here. 
‘Of course, sir. We agree to all conditions,’ I said. I just wanted to leave. ‘So, here they are. One, you will not leave Delhi. In fact, Keshav, you will come and report to me every day. 
‘Two, no media. I don’t care how much they pester you. You do not talk to the media.’
‘Yes, sir,’ I said. 
‘Three, if I need anything else, you help me. I don’t know how IIT works, so if I need to, I will come to you.’ 
‘Yes, sir,’ I said. 
‘Good. I think the case will be closed soon. We will have the killer behind bars.’ Inspector Rana stood up. We took our cue and stood up as well. ‘We can go now, sir?’ Saurabh sounded disbelieving. 
‘Unless you like staying in jail,’ Inspector Rana laughed, probably for the first time all day, or week, or year or in his entire career. Saurabh dashed out of the inspector’s room. Before I left, I gathered courage enough to ask the inspector one question. 
‘Excuse me, sir, did you find out more about the watchman? Why did Zara slap him? How do you know he killed her?’ 
‘Go home. You will find out in the news.’ He winked at me.
Chapter 9 
‘Hey, Keshav.’ Raghu tapped my shoulder from behind. It was the day of Zara’s funeral. 
After leaving the police station, I had recounted everything to my parents. I had to even explain everything to Chandan Arora, who had been calling me continuously. ‘I am with you,’ he had said, gutkha in mouth, when he spoke to me on the phone. ‘You can say to media that you work for a reputed coaching class company. Chandan Classes. We are going national, you know.’ I had to tell him I couldn’t talk to the media, let alone use this as a PR opportunity to promote his classes. 
Saurabh and I had come to the Muslim graveyard in Chattarpur, near Zara’s house. 
‘Hi, Raghu. When did you arrive?’ I said, turning towards him. He had his left arm in a cast. His forehead and the back of his neck had bruises. He wore a white kurta pyjama. He removed his black-framed spectacles and rubbed his eyes. 
‘Yesterday evening. So, you saw her?’ he said in a soft voice. I nodded. ‘Tell me everything. Please,’ Raghu said, ‘I don’t want to be in the dark.’ 
Somehow, after Zara’s death, I didn’t feel as much animosity towards him. I wondered if he knew about the messages Zara had sent to me before her death. Maybe I should tell him, I thought. I had already shared them with the police, who would probably tell him eventually. I wanted to rub it in his face that Zara wanted to get back with me. Scolding myself for thinking such shallow thoughts, I recounted the night of Zara’s death to him in as much detail as possible. However, I toned down the exact messages she had sent me. 
‘We reconnected, I went to wish her. That’s all,’ I said as I finished the story.
He nodded, his gaze down. 
‘It’s terrible,’ I said into the awkward silence. 
He bit his lip and looked into my eyes for a long time. No words, just this level look. 
Did he think I had done it? 
‘I went to her room because…’ I began to say again. 
‘I know. I went to the police station last night. I found out about your chat with her.’ 
‘She messaged me first,’ I said defensively. 
‘How does it matter now?’ he said. ‘We lost her. Forever. Because of this godforsaken city. I had told her to move much earlier.’ I looked away. Zara’s father came up to us then, wanting to speak to Raghu in private. He and Raghu walked away from me. 
Saurabh and I went to the grave. Zara’s body lay wrapped in a white shroud. I had an absurd feeling that she was waiting for me to come closer and talk to her, and that when I did so she would wake up and smile that beautiful smile, a smile that would make everything alright again. 
A few elderly Muslim men nearby were praying aloud in Arabic. Safdar came to stand close by, his face grim, hands clasped. Even though Muslim funerals usually don’t have women present, Zara’s stepmother, Zainab, stood behind him a bit further away, along with some relatives. 
Zara’s father took a handful of mud and placed it under Zara’s head. I saw Zara’s stepbrother, Sikander, who I knew was in his early twenties but looked way younger due to his baby face. I had only seen Sikander in some old family pictures. Zara’s father, originally from Srinagar, became a widower when Zara was three years old. When Zara turned five, he married a widow called Farzana, in Srinagar. Farzana had lost her first husband to militancy in Kashmir. Sikander was her son from that marriage. Hence, Zara and Sikander grew up together as step-siblings in Kashmir. Eight years later, Safdar and Farzana got divorced, after Safdar discovered that her family had militant roots; Safdar hated fundamentalists. They separated, each taking their biological child with them as they went their own ways. Safdar moved his business to Delhi, and Zara shifted with him. In Delhi, Zara’s father married his accountant, Zainab. Sikander, meanwhile, stayed back and grew up with his mother, Farzana, in Srinagar. 
Sikander stood near Zara’s body, fingers interlinked. He picked up a ball
of mud and placed it under Zara’s chin. He sobbed as he performed the ritual. Zara and Sikander had remained close after their parents’ separation, even though Safdar discouraged the contact. Sikander, from what Zara had told me, was a poor student. She used to help him with his lessons and ensure he passed his exams. When Zara left Kashmir, his grades slipped and he never made it past class five. 
‘I just hope Sikander is fine. He is a baby,’ Zara often said to me. I noticed Prof. Saxena, Zara’s PhD guide from IIT Delhi. He had come to the funeral along with his wife. Prof. Saxena was also the dean of student affairs at IIT. He went up to Safdar and they spoke to each other for a few minutes. 
As Prof. Saxena stepped away, Zara’s father called Raghu and handed a fistful of mud to him. Obviously only close male relatives performed this ritual and, I guess, Safdar saw Raghu as part of the family. A maulvi recited Arabic verses as Raghu placed the earth in his hand under Zara’s shoulders. My resentment against Raghu came rushing back. Why did he get to be with her at the end? Why was I watching this from a distance, like an imposter? Why was no one calling me to pay my respects? 
The maulvi’s prayers filled the air as Zara’s male relatives lowered her body into the grave. People ahead of me covered my view, so that I had to elbow my way to the front. I whispered to her for the last time. ‘Forgive me, Zara, for not fighting for us.’ 
‘What, bhai?’ Saurabh said, as he heard me mumble. 
‘Nothing,’ I said, my head averted to shield my wet eyes from him. ‘Shall we go?’ Saurabh said. ‘I don’t think they want us here.’ ‘Let me offer my condolences to her father and then we can leave.’ As they covered Zara’s body with more earth, Safdar spoke to a tall man 
in his thirties. The man stood with his back very straight, and had the typical Kashmiri apple-cheeked complexion. I went to them and waited politely for them to finish their conversation. 
‘Thank you again, Faiz. You left duty and came all the way,’ Safdar said. 
‘What are you saying, uncle? This is family. What happened is just tragic,’ Faiz said. 
Safdar nodded and embraced Faiz before the latter finally left. Then Safdar noticed me.
‘Did you have to come here?’ 
‘I just wanted to offer my condolences,’ I said. 
‘You were there. In her room. And now you have the guts to offer sympathy?’ he thundered. 
‘Uncle, I loved your daughter. How can you even think…’ 
He put up his hand to stop me. 
‘I told you to leave her alone. Why didn’t you?’ 
‘I loved her.’ 
‘That is why you let your family humiliate her?’ 
‘I can’t control them. Even you didn’t support us, uncle.’ 
‘I gave you an option,’ he said. ‘And I am giving you one now.’ ‘What?’ 
‘Just leave. Khuda Hafiz.’ 

I reached Alwar in the afternoon. I had taken Inspector Rana’s permission to go home for a day. I wanted my parents around, lest I had an emotional breakdown. My mother sensed my pain and prepared all my favourite Rajasthani dishes. Over gatte ki subzi and hot phulkas topped with desi ghee, I watched the afternoon news. 
‘Breaking News: Watchman arrested for the murder of IIT Delhi girl.’ Anchor Arijit gave the details. 
‘Himadri hostel watchman Laxman Reddy has been arrested for the murder of Zara Lone, a Kashmiri PhD student in IIT Delhi.’ The visuals showed a dazed Laxman being escorted into a police van. Arijit continued, ‘Sources say Laxman Reddy would often stare at the girls sitting outside in the Himadri hostel garden and make them feel uncomfortable. In fact, about a month ago, he tried to shoot an upskirt video of a student while she sat on her scooter. Zara Lone confronted Laxman and they had an argument. Zara Lone had slapped Laxman in full public view at the time.’ 
My mother walked into the living room with more phulkas. She picked up the remote and switched the TV off. 
‘You have come to get away from this case,’ she said. 
‘Maa, what are you doing?’ I said. I pulled the remote out of her hand.
‘They are giving new information.’ 
‘She’s dead. Whatever information they give, that Muslim girl is not coming back. Thank God.’ 
‘Maa,’ I shouted, ‘stop it. She died less than a week ago.’ 
‘She caused enough trouble when alive. Please don’t let her affect you now that she is gone.’ 
‘Enough, maa,’ I said. I took a phulka from the plate in her hand. ‘What happened with your job search?’ 
‘I am trying, maa. Had interviews. Let’s see.’ 
I didn’t have to see, they had rejected me already. 
After my mother left the room in a huff I switched on the TV again. Arijit was speaking to a reporter. 
‘So what else are we hearing?’ Arijit said. The reporter spoke into his mike. 
‘We are at the Hauz Khas police station. Laxman Reddy is now in police custody. The Delhi Police claims they have solved the case in record time. They have ample evidence to convict the watchman. In fact, the assistant commissioner said that it is high time the media accepted that they were wrong in harshly judging the Delhi Police, which has in fact done a fantastic job in this case.’ 
‘Well, self-congratulations apart, how does the Delhi Police know for sure it is the watchman?’ Arijit said. 
‘The CCTV footage shows the watchman missing from his post for forty minutes. He had voyeuristic tendencies. Zara Lone, who had slapped him, had also filed a complaint against him. The police said Laxman Reddy comes from a village two hours from Hyderabad, in Telangana. A few days ago, Zara Lone’s fiancé and internet entrepreneur Raghu Venkatesh, who lives in Hyderabad, was violently attacked by local goons. This incident could be connected to Laxman as well. Mr Raghu evaded death, but suffered significant injuries and was admitted in the Apollo Hospital. Back to you, Arijit.’ 
The camera shifted to Arijit in his window next to seven other tiny windows with one panellist each. 
Arijit made the opening remarks to start the debate. 
‘So, here we are. A case of a serial stalker and voyeur who was allowed to remain a watchman in a prestigious institute like IIT. On our panel today
we discuss: shouldn’t the IIT authorities take responsibility for not acting on a complaint against a watchman for weeks? Did IIT kill Zara Lone?’ A few panellists immediately began to speak, cutting each other out. I couldn’t understand one sentence, and the loud noise was hurting my ears. I picked up the remote and switched off the TV, restoring silence in the room. ‘Thank God you shut that subzi-mandi debate,’ my mother said from the kitchen. 

I tossed and turned in bed for an hour. I could not sleep. But I wasn’t thinking about Zara and crying like I had been doing every night; tonight my mind was on something else. Did Laxman Reddy actually kill Zara? The question kept ringing in my head. Yes, he had a motive. Zara had slapped him in public. There was circumstantial evidence too. He left his seat that night. He could well have done it. 
And yet, something didn’t add up. I couldn’t specify the reason, but I had a strange feeling in my gut. As Delhi police declared victory and the media created noisy panels to discuss security, something didn’t feel right. I called Saurabh. 
‘Sleeping?’ I said as he picked the call. 
‘No, bhai. Watching videos.’ 
‘What kind of videos?’ I said and smirked. 
‘Shut up, bhai. YouTube.’ 
‘Yeah, right. How’s Chandan Classes?’ 
‘As screwed as ever. Gutkha man asked about you.’ 
‘Am back tomorrow. To join you in your misery.’ 
‘Take your time. I will handle it here. Are you feeling okay?’ ‘Okay is still quite far. Cried less than three hours today. So that is an improvement.’ 
‘It will get better.’ 
‘Hope so. But something else is playing on my mind too.’ 
‘What?’ 
‘You saw the news?’ 
‘They arrested Laxman Reddy. Creep used to make upskirt videos of IIT girls. What is upskirt, bhai?’
