The3Mistakes of My Life 
Chetan Bhagat is the author of four bestselling novels –Five Point Someone (2004),One Night @ the Call Center(2005),The 3 Mistakes of My Life (2008) and2 States: The Story of My Marriage (2009). 
Chetan’s books have remained bestsellers since their release, and have been adapted into major Bollywood films.The New York Timescalled him the ‘the biggest selling English language novelist in India’s history.’Time magazine named him as one amongst the ‘100 Most Influential People in the world’ and Fast Company, USA, listed him as one of the world’s ‘100 most creative people in business.’ 
Chetan writes for leading English and Hindi newspapers, focusing on youth and national development issues. He is also a motivational speaker. 
Chetan quit his international investment banking career in 2009, to devote his entire time to writing and make change happen in the country. He lives in Mumbai with his wife Anusha, an ex-classmate from IIM-A, and his twin sons Shyam and Ishaan. 
To know more about Chetan visit www.chetanbhagat.com or email him at info@chetanbhagat.com. 
–––––––––— 
… I Love you Rachu … 
Book Downloaded 
from: EBOOK4IN.BLOGSPOT.COM
Praise for previous work 
Many writers are successful at expressing what’s in their hearts or articulating a particular point of view.Chetan Bhagat’s books do both and more. 
– A R Rahman, in TIME magazine, on Chetan’s inclusion in the Time 100 Most Influential People in the world 
The voice of India’s rising entrepreneurial class. 
– Fast Company Magazine, on Chetan’s inclusion in the 100 Most Creative People in business globally 
India’s paperback king. 
–The Guardian 
The biggest-selling English-language novelist in India’s history. 
– The New York Times 
A rockstar of Indian publishing. 
–The Times of India 
Bhagat has touched a nerve with young Indian readers and acquired almost cult status. 
– International Herald Tribune
… I Love you Rachu …
Text copyright © 2015 by Chetan Bhagat 
Originally published by Rupa Publication 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, or stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without express written permission of the publisher. 
Published by Amazon Publishing, Seattle 
www.apub.com 
Amazon, the Amazon logo, and Amazon Publishing are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc., or its affiliates. 
eISBN: 9781503987685 
Cover Designer: Rachita Rakyan 
–––––––––— 
… I Love you Rachu … 
Book Downloaded 
from: EBOOK4IN.BLOGSPOT.COM
To my country, which called me back
Contents 
Acknowledgements 
Prologue 
One 
Two 
Three 
Four 
Five 
Six 
Seven 
Eight 
Nine 
Ten 
Eleven 
Twelve 
Thirteen 
Fourteen 
Fifteen 
Sixteen 
Seventeen 
Eighteen 
Nineteen 
Twenty 
Twenty one 
Epilogue 
Epilogue II
Acknowledgements 

My readers, you that is, to whom I owe all my success and motivation. My life belongs to you now, and serving you is the most meaningful thing I can do with my life. I want to share something with you. I am very ambitous in my writing goals. However, I don’t want to be India’s most admired writer. I just want to be India’s most loved writer. Admiration passes, love endures. 
To Shinie Antony, a friend who has been with me all these years and who critically reviews my work and ensures that it is fit for my reader’s consumption. My family, which continues to support me in all my ventures. Specially, my brother Ketan Bhagat for his critical feedback from Sydney and cricket freak brother-in-law Anand Suryanaryan who told me more about cricket than anyone else would have. 
The people of Gujarat, in particular Ahmedabad, where I spent some of the most wonderful and formative years of my life. 
My publishers Rupa and Co, who have fulfilled all my dreams and continue to pursue the goal of making India read. 
My friends in the film industry, who have given me a new platform to tell my stories from, and who teach me new things everyday, in particular Atul Agnihotri, Raju Hirani, Alvira Khan, Sharman Joshi, Vipul Shah, Imtiaz Ali, Shirish Kunder, Farah Khan and Salman Khan. 
The Madras Players and Evam Theatre Group, who turned my stories into wonderful plays. 
My friends in the media, especially those who have understood my intentions for my country and are with me. 
My colleagues at Deutsche Bank, my friends in Mumbai and Hong Kong. 
God, who continues to look after me despite my flaws.
–––––––––— 
… I Love you Rachu … 
Book Downloaded from: EBOOK4IN.BLOGSPOT.COM
Prologue 

It is not everyday you sit in front of your computer on a Saturday morning and get an email like this: 
From: Ahd_businessman@gmail.com 
Sent: 12/28/2005 11.40 p.m. 
To: info@chetanbhagat.com 
Subject: A final note 
Dear Chetan 
This email is a combined suicide note and a confession letter. I have let people down and have no reason to live. You don’t know me. I’m an ordinary boy in Ahmedabad who read your books. And somehow I felt I could write to you after that. I can’t really tell anyone what I am doing to myself – which is taking a sleeping pill everytime I end a sentence – so I thought I would tell you. 
I kept my coffeee cup down and counted. Five full stops already. 
I made three mistakes; I don’t want to go into details. 
My suicide is not a sentimental decision. As many around me know, I am a good businessman because I have little emotion. This is no knee-jerk reaction. I waited over three years, watched Ish’s silent face everyday. But after he refused my offer yesterday, I had no choice left. 
I have no regrets either. Maybe I’d have wanted to talk to Vidya once more – but that doesn’t seem like such a good idea right now. 
Sorry to bother you with this. But I felt like I had to tell someone. You have ways to improve as an
author but you do write decent books. Have a nice weekend. 
Regards 
Businessman 
17, 18, 19. Somewhere, in Ahmedabad a young ‘ordinary’ boy had popped nineteen sleeping pills while typing out a mail to me. Yet, he expected me to have a nice weekend. The coffee refused to go down my throat. I broke into a cold sweat. 
‘One, you wake up late. Two, you plant yourself in front of the computerfirst thing in the morning. Are you even aware that you have a family?’ Anusha said. In case it isn’t obvious enough from the authoritative tone, Anusha is my wife. 
I had promised to go furniture shopping with her – a promise that was made ten weekends ago. 
She took my coffee mug away and jiggled the back of my chair. ‘We need dining chairs. Hey, you look worried?’ she said. 
I pointed to the monitor. 
‘Businessman?’ she said as shefinished reading the mail. She looked pretty shaken up too. 
‘And it is from Ahmedabad,’ I said, ‘that is all we know.’ ‘You sure this is real?’ she said, a quiver in her voice. ‘This is not spam,’ I said. ‘It is addressed to me.’ 
My wife pulled a stool to sit down. I guess we really did need some extra chairs. 
‘Think,’ she said. ‘We’ve got to let someone know. His parents maybe.’ 
‘How? I don’t know where the hell it came from,’ I said. ‘And who do we know in Ahmedabad?’ 
‘We met in Ahmedabad, remember?’ Anusha said. A pointless statement, I thought. Yes, we’d been classmates at IIM-A years ago. 
‘So?’
‘Call the institute. Prof Basant or someone,’ she sniffed and left the room. ‘Oh no, the daal is burning.’ 
There are advantages in having a wife smarter than you. I could never be a detective. 
I searched the institute numbers on the Internet and called. An operator connected me to Prof Basant’s residence. I checked the time,10.00 a.m. in Singapore, 7.30 a.m. in India. It is a bad idea to messwith a prof early in the morning. 
‘Hello?’ a sleepy voice answered. Had to be the prof. 
‘Prof Basant, Hi. This is Chetan Bhagat calling. Your old student, remember?’ 
‘Who?’ he said with a clear lack of curiosity in his voice. Bad start. 
I told him about the course he took for us, and how we had voted him the friendliest professor in the campus. Flattery didn’t help much either. 
‘Oh that Chetan Bhagat,’ he said, like he knew a million of them. ‘You are a writer now, no?’ 
‘Yes sir,’ I said, ‘that one.’ 
‘So why are you writing books?’ 
‘Tough question, sir,’ I stalled. 
‘Ok, a simple one. Why are you calling me so early on a Saturday?’ 
I told him why and forwarded the email to him. 
‘No name, eh?’ he said as he read the mail. 
‘He could be in a hospital somewhere in Ahmedabad. He would have just checked in. Maybe he is dead. Or maybe he is at home and this was a hoax,’ I said. 
I was blabbering. I wanted help – for the boy and me. The prof had asked a good question. Why the hell did I write books – to get into this? 
‘We can check hospitals,’ Prof said. ‘I can ask a few students. But a name surely helps. Hey wait, this boy has a
Gmail account, maybe he is on Orkut as well.’ 
‘Or-what?’ Life is tough when you are always talking to people smarter than you. 
‘You are so out of touch, Chetan. Orkut is a networking site. Gmail users sign up there. If he is a member and we are lucky, we can check his profile.’ 
I heard him clicking keys and sat before my own PC. I had just reached the Orkut site when Prof Basant exclaimed, ‘Aha, Ahmedabad Businessman. There is a brief profile here. The name only says G. Patel. Interests are cricket, business, mathematics and friends. Doesn’t seem like he uses Orkut much though.’ 
‘What are you talking about Prof Basant? I woke up to a suicide note, written exclusively to me. Now you are telling me about his hobbies. Can you help me or…’ 
A pause, then, ‘I will get some students. We will search for a new young patient called G. Patel, suspected of sleeping pill overdose. We will call you if wefind anything, ok?’ 
‘Yes, sir,’ I said, breathing properly after a long time. 
‘And how is Anusha? You guys bunked my classes for dates and now forget me.’ 
‘She isfine, sir.’ 
‘Good, I always felt she was smarter than you. Anyway, let’sfind your boy,’ the prof said and hung up. 
Besides furniture shopping, I had tofinish an office presentation. My boss, Michel’s boss was due from New York. Hoping to impress him Michel had asked me to make a presentation of the group, withfifty charts. For three consecutive nights last week I had worked until 1:00 a.m., but had gotten only halfway. 
‘This is a suggestion. Don’t take it the wrong way. But do consider taking a bath,’ my wife said. 
I looked at her. 
‘Just an option,’ she said.
I think she is overcautious sometimes. I don’t bite back. ‘Yes, yes. I will,’ I said and stared at the computer again. 
Thoughts darted through my head. Should I call some hospitals myself? What if Prof Basant dozed off again? What if he could not collect the students? What if G. Patel was dead? And why am I becoming so involved here? 
I took a reluctant shower. I opened the office presentation, but found myself unable to type a single word. 
I refused breakfast, though regretted it moments later – as hunger and anxiety did not go well together. 
My phone rang at 1.33 p.m. 
‘Hello,’ Prof Basant’s voice was unmistakable. ‘We have a match at Civil Hospital. His name is Govind Patel, twenty-five years of age. A second-year student of mine found him.’ 
‘And?’ 
‘And he is alive. But won’t talk. Even to his family. Must be in shock.’ 
‘What are the doctors saying?’ I said. 
‘Nothing. It is a government hospital. What do you expect? Anyway, they willflush his stomach and send him home. I won’t worry too much now. Will ask a student to check again in the evening.’ 
‘But what is his story? What happened?’ 
‘All that I don’t know. Listen, don’t get too involved. India is a big country. These things happen all the time. The more you probe, the more the chances of the police harassing you.’ 
Next, I called the Civil Hospital. However, the operator did not know about the case and there was no facility to transfer line to the ward either. 
Anusha, too, was relieved that the boy was safe. She then announced the plan for the day – the dining chair hunt. It would begin at Ikea on Alexandra Road.
We reached Ikea at around three o’clock and browsed through the space-saving dining sets. One dining table could fold four times over and become a coffee table – pretty neat. 
‘I want to know what happened to the twenty-fuve-year old businessman,’ I muttered. 
‘You willfind out eventually. Let him recover. Must be one of those crazy reasons of youth – rejection in love, low marks or drugs.’ 
I stayed silent. 
‘C’mon, he just emailed you. Your ID is on your book cover. Youreally don’t need to get involved. Should we take six or eight?’ She moved towards an oak-wood set. 
I protested that we rarely had so many guests at home. Six chairs would be enough. 
‘The marginal capacity utilisation of the two chairs would be less than ten per cent,’ I said. 
‘You men are least helpful,’ she tossed back and then selected six chairs. 
My mind strayed back to the businessman. 
Yes, everyone was right. I shouldn’t get involved. But yet, of all the people in the world, this boy had sent me his last words. I couldn’t help but get involved. 
We ate lunch in the food court next to Ikea. 
‘I have to go,’ I told my wife as I played with my lemon rice. 
‘Where? To the office. Ok, you are a free man now. I did my shopping,’ my wife said. 
‘No. I want to go to Ahmedabad. I want to meet Govind Patel.’ I did not meet her eye. Maybe I was sounding crazy. 
‘Are you nuts?’ 
I think it is only in my generation that Indian women started slamming their husbands. 
‘My mind keeps going back,’ I said.
‘What about your presentation? Michel will kill you.’ 
‘I know. He won’t get promoted unless he impresses his boss.’ 
My wife looked at me. My face was argument enough. She knew I would not talk sense until I had met the boy. 
‘Well, there is only one directflight at 6 p.m. today. You can check the tickets.’ She dialled the Singapore Airlines number and handed me the phone. 

I entered the room the nurses had led me to. The eerie silence and the darkness made my footsteps sound loud. Ten different instruments beeped and LED lightsflickered at regular intervals. Cables from the instruments disappeared into the man I had travelled thousands of miles to see – Govind Patel. 
I noticed the curly hairfirst. He had a wheatish complexion and bushy eyebrows. His thin lips had turned dry because of the medicines. 
‘Hi, Chetan Bhagat … the writer you wrote to,’ I said, unsure if he could place me. 
‘O … How did … youfind me?’ he said,finding it difficult to speak. 
‘Destined to, I guess,’ I said. 
I shook hands and sat down. His mother came into the room. She looked so sleep-deprived, she could use a sleeping pill herself. I greeted her as she went out to get tea. 
I looked at the boy again. I had two instant urges – one, to ask him what happened and two, to slap him. 
‘Don’t look at me like that,’ he said, shifting in his bed, ‘you must be angry. Sorry, I should not have written that mail.’ 
‘Forget the mail. You should not have done what you did.’ 
He sighed. He took a hard look at me and then turned his gaze sideways. 
‘I have no regrets,’ he said.
‘Shut up. There is nothing heroic in this. Cowards pop pills.’ 
‘You would have done the same, if you were in my place.’ ‘Why? What happened to you?’ 
‘It doesn’t matter.’ 
We fell silent as his mother returned with tea. A nurse came in and told his mother to go home, but she refused to budge. Finally, the doctor had to intervene. 
She left at 11.30 p.m. I stayed in the room, promising the doctor I would leave soon. 
‘So, tell me your story,’ I said, once we were alone. 
‘Why? What can you do about it? You can’t change what happened,’ he said tiredly. 
‘You don’t just listen to stories to change the past. Sometimes, it is important to know what happened.’ 
‘I am a businessman. To me, people only do things out of self-interest. What’s in it for you? And why should I waste my time telling you anything?’ 
I stared at the soft-skinned face that hid such hardness inside. 
‘Because I will want to tell others,’ I said. There, that was my incentive. 
‘And why would anyone care? My story is not trendy or sexy like the IITs and call centres.’ 
He removed the quilt covering his chest. The heater and our conversation kept the room warm. 
‘I think they will care,’ I said, ‘a young person tried to kill himself. That does not seem right.’ 
‘No one gives a fuck about me.’ 
I tried, but found it difficult to be patient. I considered slapping him again. 
‘Listen,’ I said, pitching my voice to the maximum allowed in a hospital. ‘You chose to send your last mail to me. That
means at a certain level you trusted me. I located you andflew out within hours of your mail. You still question if I care? And now this cocky attitude, this arrogance is part of your business? Can’t you talk to me like a friend? Do you even know what a friend is?’ 
A nurse came peeking into the room on hearing my loud voice. We became quiet. The clock showed midnight. 
He sat there stunned. Everyone had behaved nicely with him today. I stood up and turned away from him. 
‘I know what a friend is,’ he said at last. 
I sat down next to him. 
‘I do know what a friend is. Because I had two, the best ones in the world.’
One 

India vs South Africa 
4th ODI, Vadodra 
17 March 2000 
Over 45 
‘Why the fuck did you have to move?’ Ishaan’s scream drowned out the stadium din on the TV. I had shifted up to a sofa from the floor. 
‘Huh?’ I said. We were in Ishaan’s house – Ishaan, Omi and I. Ishaan’s mom had brought in tea and khakra for us. ‘It is more comfortable to snack on the sofa. That is why I moved.’ 
‘Tendulkar’s gone. Fuck, now at this stage. Omi, don’t you dare move now. Nobody moves for the next five overs.’ 
I looked at the TV. We were chasing 283 to win. India’s score a ball ago was 256-2 after forty-five overs. Twenty seven runs in five overs, with eight wickets to spare and Tendulkar on the crease. A cakewalk. The odds were still in India’s favour, but Tendulkar was out. And that explained the frowns on Ishaan’s forehead. 
‘The khakra’s crispy,’ Omi said. Ishaan glared at Omi, chiding him for his shallow sensory pleasure in a moment of national grief. Omi and I kept our tea cups aside and looked suitably mournful. 
The crowd clapped as Tendulkar made his exit. Jadeja came to the crease and added six more runs. End of forty-six overs, India 262/3. Twenty-one more runs to win in four overs, with seven wickets in hand. 
Over 46 
‘He made 122. The guy did his job. Just a few final closing shots left. Why are you getting so worked up?’ I asked during a commercial break. I reached for my tea cup, but Ishaan signalled me to leave it alone. We were not going to indulge
until the fate of the match was decided. Ishaan was pissed with us anyway. The match was in Vadodra, just two hours away from Ahmedabad. But we could not go – one, because we didn’t have money, and two, because I had my correspondence exams in two days. Of course, I had wasted the whole day watching the match on TV instead, so reason number two did not really hold much weight. 
‘It is 5.25 runs required per over,’ I said, not able to resist doing a mathematical calculation. That is one reason I like cricket, there is so much maths in it. 
‘You don’t know this team. Tendulkar goes, they panic. It isn’t about the average. It is like the queen bee is dead, and the hive loses order,’ Ishaan said. 
Omi nodded, as he normally does to whatever Ishaan has to say about cricket. 
‘Anyway, I hope you realise, we didn’t meet today to see this match. We have to decide what Mr Ishaan is doing about his future, right?’ I said. 
Ishaan had always avoided this topic ever since he ran away from NDA a year ago. His dad had already sarcastically commented, ‘Cut a cake today to celebrate one year of your uselessness.’ 
However, today I had a plan. I needed to sit them down to talk about our lives. Of course, against cricket, life is second priority. 
‘Later,’ Ishaan said, staring avidly at a pimple cream commercial. 
‘Later when Ishaan? I have an idea that works for all of us. We don’t have a lot of choice, do we?’ 
‘All of us? Me, too?’ Omi quizzed, already excited. Idiots like him love to be part of something, anything. However, this time we needed Omi. 
‘Yes, you play a critical role Omi. But later when Ish? When?’
‘Oh, stop it! Look, the match is starting. Ok, over dinner. Let’s go to Gopi,’ Ish said. 
‘Gopi? Who’s paying?’ I was interrupted as the match began. 
Beep, beep, beep. The horn of a car broke our conversation. A car zoomed outside the pol. 
‘What the hell! I am going to teach this bastard a lesson,’ Ish said, looking out the window. 
‘What’s up?’ 
‘Bloody son of a rich dad. Comes and circles around our house everyday.’ 
‘Why?’ I said. 
‘For Vidya. He used to be in coaching classes with her. She complained about him there too,’ Ish said. 
Beep, beep, beep, the car came near the house again. 
‘Damn, I don’t want to miss this match,’ Ish said as he saw India hit a four. Ish picked up his bat. We ran out the house. The silver Esteem circled the pol and came back for another round of serenading. Ish stood in front of the car and asked the boy to stop. The Esteem halted in front of Ish. Ish went to the driver, an adolescent. 
‘Excuse me, your headlight is hanging out.’ 
‘Really?’ the boy said and shut off the ignition. He stepped outside and came to the front. 
Ish grabbed the boy’s head from behind and smashed his face into the bonnet. He proceeded to strike the headlight with his bat. The glass broke and the bulb hung out. 
‘What’s your problem,’ the boy said, blood spurting out of his nose. 
‘You tell me what’s up? You like pressing horns?’ Ish said. 
Ish grabbed his collar and gave six non-stop slaps across his face. Omi picked up the bat and smashed the windscreen.
The glass broke into a million pieces. People on the street gathered around as there is nothing quite as entertaining as a street fight. 
The boy shivered in pain and fear. What would he tell his daddy about his broken car and face? 
Ish’s dad heard the commotion and came out of the house. Ish held the boy in an elbow lock. The boy was struggling to breathe. 
‘Leave him,’ Ish’s dad said. 
Ish gripped him tighter. 
‘I said leave him,’ Ish’s dad shouted, ‘what’s going on here?’ 
‘He has been troubling Vidya since last week,’ Ish said. He kicked the boy’s face with his knee and released him. The boy kneeled on the floor and sucked in air. The last kick from Ish had smeared the blood from his nose across his face. 
‘And what do you think you are doing?’ Ish’s dad asked him. 
‘Teaching him a lesson,’ Ish said and unhooked his bat stuck in the windscreen. 
‘Really, when will you learn your lessons?’ Ish’s dad said to him. 
Ish turned away. 
‘You go now,’ Ish’s dad said to the beeping driver, who folded his hands. Seeing that no one cared about his apology, he trudged back to his car. 
Ish’s dad turned to his neighbours. ‘For one whole year he’s been sitting at home. Ran away from the army of his own country and then wants to teach lessons to others! He and his loafer friends hanging around the house all day long.’ 
One sidelong glance at his dad and Ish walked back home. ‘Where the hell are you going now?’ Ish’s dad said.
‘Match. Why? You want to curse me some more?’ Ish said. 
‘When you’ve wasted your entire life, what’s another day?’ Ish’s father said and the neighbours half-nodded their heads in sympathy. 
We missed the final five overs of the match. Luckily, India won and Ish didn’t get that upset. 
‘Yes, yes, yes,’ Ishaan jumped. ‘Gopi on me tonight.’ I love idiots. 
Actually, Ishaan is not an idiot. At least not as much as Omi. It is just that both of them suck at studies, especially maths, and I am good at it. Hence, I have this chip on my shoulder. It does sound a bit conceited, but it is the only chip on my shoulder. For instance, I am easily the poorest of the three (though I will be the richest one day), even though Ishaan and Omi aren’t particularly wealthy. Ishaan’s dad works in the telephone exchange, and while they have lots of phones in the house, the salary is modest. Omi’s dad is the priest of the Swamibhakti temple, which actually belongs to Omi’s mom’s family for generations. And that does not pay well either. But still, they are a lot better off than me and my mom. My mom runs a small Gujarati snacks business, and the little bit of money I make from tuitions helps us get by, but that’s about it. 
‘We won, we won the series 3-1,’ Omi repeated what he read on the TV screen. Of course, it would have been too much for him to express such original insight. Some say Omi was born stupid, while some say he became stupid after a cork ball hit him on the head in Class VI. I didn’t know the reason, but I did know that maybe the best idea for him would be to become a priest. He wouldn’t have much of a career otherwise, given that he barely scraped through Class XII, after repeating the maths compartment exam twice. But he didn’t want to be a priest, so my plan was the best one. 
I ate the khakra. My mother made it better than Ishaan’s mom. We were professionals after all.
‘I’ll go home to change and then we will go to Gopi, ok?’ I said as Ishaan and Omi were still dancing. Dancing after an Indian victory was a ritual we had started when we were eleven, one that should have stopped by thirteen. However, here we were at twenty-one, jigging like juveniles. Ok, so we won, someone had to. In mathematical terms, there was a pretty good probability – did it really need jumping around? 

I walked back home. 
The narrow lanes of the old city were bustling with the evening crowd. My house and Ishaan’s were only half a kilometre apart. Everything in my world fell between this distance. I passed by the Nana Park, extra packed with kids playing cricket as India had won the match. I played here almost every day of my school life. We still come here sometimes, but now we prefer the abandoned bank branch compound near my home. 
A tennis ball landed at my feet. A sweaty twelve-year-old boy came running to me. I picked up the ball for him. Nana Park is where I had first met Ishaan and Omi, over fifteen years ago. There was no dramatic moment that marked the start of our friendship. Maybe we sized each other up as the only six-year-olds in the ground and started playing together. 
Like most neighbourhood kids, we went to the Belrampur Municipal School, hundred metres down Nana Park. Of course, only I studied while Ish and Omi ran to the park at every opportunity. 
Three bicycles tried to overtake each other in the narrow by lane. I had to step inside Qazi restaurant to let them pass. A scent of fried coriander and garlic filled the narrow room. The cook prepared dinner, a bigger feast than usual as India had won the match. Ishaan and I came here sometimes (without telling Omi, of course) for the cheap food and extraordinary mutton. The owner assured us ‘small mutton’, implying goat and not beef. I believed him, as he would not have survived in the neighbourhood if he served beef. I wanted to eat here instead of Gopi. But we had promised Gopi to Omi, and the
food was fantastic there as well. Food is a passion here, especially as Gujarat is a dry state. People here get drunk on food. 
Yes, Ahmedabad is my city. It is strange, but if you have had happy times in a city for a long time, you consider it the best city in the world. I feel the same about Ahmedabad. I know it is not one of those hip cities like Delhi, Bombay or Bangalore. I know people in these cities think of Ahmedabad as a small town, though that is not really the case. Ahmedabad is the sixth largest city in India, with a population of over five million. But I guess if you have to emphasise the importance of something, then it probably isn’t as important in the first place. I could tell you that Ahmedabad has better multiplexes than Delhi or nicer roads than Bombay or better restaurants than Bangalore – but you will not believe me. Or even if you do, you won’t give a damn. I know Belrampur is not Bandra, but why should I defend being called a small-townperson as if it is a bad thing? A funny thing about small towns is that people say it is the real India. I guess they do acknowledge that at one level the India of the big cities is fake. Yes, I am from the old city of Ambavad and proud of it. We don’t have as many fashion shows and we still like our women to wear clothes. I don’t see anything wrong with that. 
I stepped out of Qazi and continued my way home, turning in the pol towards Omi’s temple. Of course, we called it Omi’s temple because he lived there, but the official name was the Swamibhakti temple. As I entered the by lane, two people fought over garbage disposal around the crammed pol. 
There are things about my small town neighbourhood that I want to change. In some ways, it is way behind the rest of Ahmedabad. For one, the whole old city could be a lot cleaner. The new city across the other side of the Sabarmati river has gleaming glass and steel buildings, while the old city finds it difficult to get rubbish cleared on time. 
I want to change another thing. I want to stop the gossip theories people come up with about other people. Like the theory about Omi becoming stupid because a cricket ball hit him. There is no basis for it, but every pol in Belrampur talks
about it. Or the theory that Ish was thrown out of NDA and did not run away. I know for a fact that it is not true. Ish cannot handle unquestioned authority, and even though he was really excited about the army (which was his only option), he could not stand some Major ordering him around for the next two decades of his life. So he paid the penalty, cited personal reasons like ailing parents or something and ran right back to Belrampur. 
And of course, what I want to stop the most – the weirdest theory that I became emotionless the day dad left us. Dad left mom and me over ten years ago, for we found out he had a second wife across town. As far as I can remember, I was never good with emotional stuff. I love maths, I love logic and those subjects have no place for emotion. I think human beings waste too much time on emotions. The prime example is my mother. Dad’s departure was followed by months of crying with every lady in every pol coming down to sympathise with her. She spent another year consulting astrologers as to which planet caused dad to move out, and when will that position change. Thereafter, a string of grandaunts came to live with her as she could not bring herself to stay alone. It wasn’t until I turned fifteen and understood how the world worked that I could coax her into opening the snacks business. Of course, my coaxing was part of it, the rest of it was that all her jewellery was officially sold by then. 
Her snacks were great, but she was no businessman. Emotional people make terrible businessmen. She would sell on credit and buy on cash – the first mistake a small business can make. Next, she would keep no accounts. The home spending money was often mixed with the business money, and we frequently had months where the choice was to buy either rice for our consumption or black pepper for the papads. 
Meanwhile, I studied as much as I could. Our school was not Oxford, and emphasis on studies was low with more teachers bunking classes than students. Still, I topped maths every single year. People thought I was gifted when I hit a hundred in maths in class X. For me, it was no big deal. For once, the gossip vine helped. The news of my score spread across pols, and we had a new source of income – tuitions. I
was the only maths tutor in Belrampur, and bad maths scores had reached epidemic proportions. Along with khaman and khakra, trigonometry and algebra became sources of income in the Patel household. Of course, it was a poor neighbourhood, so people could not pay much. Still, another thousand bucks a month was a lifestyle changing event for us. From fan, we graduated to cooler. From chairs, we went to a secondhand sofa. Life became good. 
I reached Omi’s temple. The loud rhythmic chime of the bell interrupted my thoughts. I checked my watch, it was 6 p.m., the daily aarti time. I saw Omi’s dad from a distance, his eyes closed as he chanted the mantras. Even though I was an agnostic, there was something amazing about his face – it had genuine feeling for the God he prayed to. No wonder he was among the most liked people in the community. Omi’s mother was beside him, her maroon saree draped along her head and hands folded. Next to her was Bittoo Mama, Omi’s maternal uncle. He was dressed in a white dhoti and saffron scarf. His huge biceps seemed even larger with his folded hands. His eyes, too, were transfixed in genuine admiration for the idols of Krishna and Radha. 
Omi would get into trouble for reaching the aarti late. It would not be the first time though, as matches in Nana Park were at a crucial stage around 6 p.m. 

‘How was the match?’ mom said as I reached home. She stood outside the house. 
She had just finished loading a hired auto with fresh dhokla for a marriage party. Finally, my mother could delegate routine tasks like delivery and focus on her core competence – cooking. She took out a dhokla piece from the auto for me. Bad business – snucking out something from a customer order. 
‘Great match. Nail-biting finish, we won,’ I said, walking in. 
I switched on the tubelight inside. The homes in our pol required light even during daytime.
‘If I have a good Diwali season, I will get you a colour TV,’ mom vowed. 
‘No need,’ I said. I removed my shoes to get ready for a shower, ‘you need a bigger grinder urgently, the small one is all wobbly.’ 
‘I will buy the TV if only the business makes extra money,’ she said. 
‘No. If you make extra money, put it back in the business. Don’t buy useless things. I can always see the match in colour in Ishaan’s house.’ 
She left the room. My mother knew it was futile arguing with me. Without dad around, it was amazing how much say I had in the house. And I only hoped Ish and Omi would listen to my proposition as well. 
My love for business began when I first started tuitions. It was amazing to see money build up. With money came not only things like coolers and sofas but also the most important stuff – respect. Shopkeepers no longer avoided us, relatives re invited us to weddings and our landlord’s visit did not throw us into turmoil. And then there was the thrill – I was making money, not earning it under some boss or getting a handout. I could decide my fate, how many students to teach, how many hours per class – it was my decision. 
There is something about Gujaratis, we love business. And Ambavadis love it more than anything else. Gujarat is the only state in India where people tend to respect you more if you have a business than if you are in service. The rest of the country dreams about a cushy job that gives a steady salary and provides stability. In Ahmedabad, service is for the weak. That was why I dreamt my biggest dream – to be a big businessman one day. The only hitch was my lack of capital. But I would build it slowly and make my dream come true. Sure, Ish could not make his dream of being in the Indian cricket team real, but that was a stupid dream to begin with. To be in the top eleven of a country of a billion people was in many ways an impossible dream, and even though Ish was top class in Belrampur, he was no Tendulkar. My dream was more
realistic, I would start slow and then grow my business. From a turnover of thousands, to lakhs, to crores and then to hundreds of crores. 
I came out of the shower and dressed again. 
‘Want to eat anything?’ my mother voiced her most quoted line from the kitchen. 
‘No, I am going out with Ish and Omi to Gopi.’ 
‘Gopi? Why? I make the same things. What do you get at Gopi that I can’t give you at home?’ 
Peace and quiet, I wanted to say. 
‘It’s Ish’s treat. And I want to talk to them about my new business.’ 
‘So you are not repeating the engineering entrance,’ my mother came out of the kitchen. She raised dough-covered hands, ‘You can take a year to prepare. Stop taking tuitions for a while, we have money now.’ 
My mother felt guilty about a million things. One of them was me not making it to a good engineering college. Tuitions and supporting my mom’s business meant I could study less for the entrance exams. I didn’t make it to IIT or any of the top institutes. I did make it to a far-flung college in Kutch, but it wasn’t worth it to leave my tuition income, friends, cricket at Nana Park and mom for that. Not that I felt any emotion, it just did not seem like the right trade. I could do maths honours right here in Ambavad University, continue tuitions and think about business. The Kutch college did not even guarantee a job. 
‘I don’t want to be an engineer, mom. My heart is in business. Plus, I have already done two years of college. One more and I will be a graduate.’ 
‘Yes, but who gives a job to a maths graduate?’ 
It was true. Maths honours was a stupid course to take from an economic point of view. 
‘It is ok. I needed a degree and I can get it without studying much,’ I said. ‘I am a businessman, mom. I can’t
change that.’ 
My mother pulled my cheeks. Chunks of dough stuck to my face. 
‘Be whatever. You are always my son first.’ 
She hugged me. I hated it. I hate a display of emotion more than emotion itself. 
‘I better go.’ 

‘That is your tenth chapatti,’ Ish told Omi. 
‘Ninth. Who cares? It is a buffet. Can you pass the ghee please?’ 
‘All that food. It has to be bad for you,’ Ish said. 
‘Two hundred push-ups.’ Omi said. ‘Ten rounds of Nana Park. One hour at Bittoo Mama’s home gym. You do this everyday like me and you can hog without worry.’ 
People like Omi are no-profit customers. There is no way Gopi could make money off him. 
‘Aamras, and ras malai. Thanks,’ Omi said to the waiter. Ish and I nodded for the same. 
‘So, what’s up? I’m listening,’ Ish said as he scooped up the last spoon of aamras. 
‘Eat your food first. We’ll talk over tea,’ I said. People argued less on a full stomach. 
‘I am not paying for tea. My treat is limited to a thali,’ Ishaan protested. 
‘I’ll pay for the tea,’ I said. 
‘Relax, man. I was only joking. Mr Accounts can’t even take a joke. Right, Omi?’ 
Omi laughed. 
‘Whatever. Guys, you really need to listen today. And stop calling me Mr Accounts.’ 
I ordered tea while the waiter cleared our plates.
‘I am serious, Ish. What do you plan to do with your life? We are not kids anymore,’ I said. 
‘Unfortunately,’ Ish said and sighed. ‘Ok, then. I will apply for jobs, maybe do an NIIT computer course first. Or should I take an insurance job? What do you think?’ 
I saw Ish’s face. He tried to smile, but I saw the pain. The champion batsman of Belrampur would become an insurance salesman. Belrampur kids had grown up applauding his boundaries at Nana Park. But now, when he had no life ahead, he wanted to insure other people’s lives. 
Omi looked at me, hoping I’d come up with a great option from Santa’s goodie bag. I was sick of parenting them. 
‘I want to start a business,’ I began. 
‘Not again,’ Ish said. ‘I can’t do that man. What was it the last time? A fruit dealership? Ugh! I can’t be weighing watermelons all day. And the crazy one after that, Omi?’ 
‘Car accessories. He said there is big money in that,’ Omi said as he slurped his dessert. 
‘What? Put seat covers all day. No thanks. And the other one – stock broker. What is that anyway?’ Ish shrugged. 
‘So what the fuck do you want to do? Beg people to buy insurance. Or sell credit cards at street corners? You, Ish, are a military school dropout,’ I said and paused for breath. ‘And you got a compartment in Class XII, twice. You can be a priest, Omi, but what about us?’ 
‘I don’t want to be a priest,’ Omi said listlessly. 
‘Then, why do you oppose me even before I start? This time I have something that will interest you.’ 
‘What?’ Ish said. 
‘Cricket,’ I said. 
‘What?’ both of them said in unison. 
‘There you go, nice to get your attention. Now can I talk?’ ‘Sure,’ Ish waved a hand.
‘We are going to open a cricket shop,’ I said. 
I deliberately left for the restroom. 
‘But how?’ Omi interrogated when I returned. ‘What is a cricket shop?’ 
‘A sports store really. But since cricket is the most popular game in Belrampur, we will focus on that.’ 
Ish’s silence meant he was listening to me. 
‘It will be a small retail store. Money for a shop deposit is a problem, so I need Omi’s help.’ 
‘Mine?’ Omi said. 
‘Yes, we will open the shop right inside the Swami temple complex. Next to the flower and puja shops. I noticed an empty shop there. And it is part of the temple land.’ 
‘A cricket shop in a temple complex?’ Ish questioned. 
‘Wait. Omi, do you think you can arrange that? Without that our plan is a non-starter.’ 
‘You mean the Kuber sweet shop that just closed? The temple trust will rent it out soon. And normally they let it out to something related to temple activities,’ Omi said. 
‘I know. But you have to convince your dad. After all he runs the temple trust.’ 
‘He does, but Mama looks after the shops. Will we pay rent?’ 
‘Yes,’ I sighed. ‘But not immediately. We need a two month waiver. And we cannot pay the deposit.’ 
‘I’ll have to go through mom,’ Omi said. Good, his mind was working. 
‘Sorry to ask again, but a cricket shop in a temple complex? Who will buy? Seventy-year-old aunties who come for kirtan will want willow bats?’ Ish scoffed. 
The waiter had cleared our tea and presented the bill. By Gopi protocol, we had to be out of the restaurant in two minutes.
‘Good question. A cricket shop by a temple does sound strange. But think – is there any sports shop in Belrampur?’ 
‘Not really. You don’t even get leather balls. Ellis Bridge is the nearest,’ Ish said. 
‘See, that’s number one. Number two, the temple is a family place. Kids are among the most bored people in temples. Where are they going to hang out?’ 
‘It is true,’ Omi said. ‘That is why so many balloon wallahs hover outside.’ 
‘And that is where Ish comes in. People know you were a good player. And you can give playing tips to every kid who comes to buy from us. Slowly, our reputation will build.’ 
‘But what about Christian or Muslim kids? They won’t come, right?’ Ish said. 
‘Not at first but the shop is outside the temple. As word spreads, they will come. What choice do they have anyway?’ 
‘Where will we get what we sell?’ Ish said. 
‘There’s a sports equipment supplier in Vastrapur who will give us a month’s credit. If we have the space, we are good to go without cash.’ 
‘But what if it doesn’t run?’ Ish asked with scepticism. 
‘Worst case, we sell the stock at a loss and I’ll cover the rest through my tuition savings. But it will work, man. If you put your heart into it, it will.’ 
Both of them remained silent. 
‘Guys, please. I need you for this. I really want to run a business. I can’t do it without partners. It’s cricket,’ I appealed to Ish. 
‘I’m in,’ Omi smiled. ‘I don’t have to be a priest and I get to work from home. I’m so in.’ 
‘I won’t handle money. I’ll focus on the cricket,’ Ish said. I smiled. Yes, he was coming around.
‘Of course. You think I will let you handle cash? So, are we partners?’ I stretched out my hand. 
Omi hi-fived me and Ish joined in. 
‘What are we going to call it?’ Omi said in the auto. 
‘Ask Ish,’ I said. If Ish named it, he would feel more connected to the project. 
‘How about Team India Cricket Shop?’ Ish suggested. 
‘Great name,’ I said and watched Ish smile for the first time that evening. 
‘Two rupees fifty paise each, guys,’ I said as the auto stopped near my pol in Belrampur. 
‘Here you go Mr Accounts,’ Ish said and passed his share.

T 
Two 

he Team India Cricket Shop opened with the smashing of a coconut on the morning of 29 April 2000. All our immediate families had come. My mother and Omi’s family were visibily happy while Ish’s parents were silent. They still visualised Ish as an army officer, not a shopkeeper in Belrampur. 
‘May Laxmi shower all blessings on you hardworking boys,’ Omi’s mother said before she left. 
Soon, it was just us in our twenty-feet-by-ten-feet shop. 
‘Move the counter in, the shutter won’t close,’ Ish screamed at Omi. Omi’s forehead broke into sweat as he lifted the bulky countertop yet again to move it back an inch. 
I stepped out of the shop and crossed the road for the tenth time to look at the board. It was six feet wide and two feet tall. We had painted it blue – the colour of the Indian team. In the centre, we had the letters ‘Team India Cricket Shop’ in the colours of the Indian flag. The excited painter from Shahpur had thrown in the faces of Tendulkar and Ganguly for free. Ganguly had a squint and Tendulkar’s lips looked bee-stung, but it all added to the charm. 
‘It’s beautiful,’ Omi said as he joined me in looking at the board. 
Our first customer came at 12 noon. An under-ten boy strolled to the front of our store as his mother bought puja flowers. The three of us sprung into action. 
‘Should I ask him what he wants?’ Omi whispered to me. I shook my head. Pushy meant desperate. 
The boy looked at tennis balls and bounced a few of them. While no one played tennis in Belrampur, kids played cricket with them.
‘How much for the balls?’ The boy moved to local balls. Clearly this was a price-sensitive customer. He bounced five different ones on the ground. 
‘Eight bucks. You want one?’ I said. 
He nodded. 
‘You have money?’ 
‘Mummy has,’ he said. 
‘Where is mummy?’ 
‘There,’ he pointed in the general direction of the other temple shops. I picked up the balls he had bounced and placed them in the basket. 
His mother came running into our shop. 
‘There you are Sonu, stupid boy,’ she pulled his elbow and took him out. 
‘Mummy, ball’ was all he could say about his potential purchase. 
‘Don’t worry, we will sell,’ I told my business partners. 
We made our first sale soon after. Two young brothers wearing branded clothes came to the shop. 
‘How much for tennis balls?’ one boy said. 
‘Eight bucks for Arrow, six bucks for the local basket there,’ Ish said. 
The boys moved to the local basket. They started the ball bouncing routine again as my heart wept. 
‘So where do you play cricket?’ Ish asked them. ‘Satellite,’ the elder boy said. 
Satellite was an upmarket neighbourhood on the other side of the Sabarmati river. 
‘What are you doing in the old city?’ Ish said. 
‘We came to the temple. It is Harsh bhaiya’s birthday,’ the younger boy said.
I realised we had struck real-estate gold. The temple was ancient and drew in people from the new city, too. And it was a birthday, every chance of pockets being loaded. 
‘You want to see bats?’ I asked from the cash counter. The boys shook their heads. 
Ish turned to me and signalled silence. 
‘Happy birthday, Harsh. You bowler or batsman?’ Ish said. 
Harsh looked up at Ishaan. A grown-up man asking an eleven-year-old if he was a bowler or batsman was a huge honour. It meant he was now old enough to be specialised, even though he may not have thought about it. 
‘Er, I am more of a batsman,’ Harsh said. 
‘Defensive or attack?’ Ish asked as if he was interviewing Tendulkar on ESPN. 
‘Huh?’ Harsh said. 
‘You like shots?’ Ish asked. Which kid didn’t? Harsh nodded. 
‘Show me your stance,’ Ish said. He turned to me and asked for a bat. I went to the stack of willow bats. I had bought them directly from a Kashmiri supplier in Law Garden. I picked the right size for the boy. Size six and two hundred bucks. Not top of the line, of course, but the best we could hope to sell here. 
Harsh took a stance on the empty space in front of the shop. Like every kid, he leaned his entire weight on the bat while standing. Ish moved over and gently straightened Harsh’s back. He moved his wrist upwards, and told him to balance the weight evenly on the legs. 
‘And now, whenever you attack, use the front leg to move forward but do not forget the back leg. That is your support, your anchor. Notice Tendulkar, he keeps one leg fixed.’ 
An awestruck Harsh air-struck a few strokes. 
‘Give me some tips, too,’ the younger one whined.
‘First me, Chinu,’ Harsh said. 
Ish turned to Chinu. ‘What are you, Chinu?’ 
‘All-rounder,’ Chinu said promptly. 
‘Great. Show me your bowling grip.’ 
Their parents finally found our shop. It was time to go to the temple. 
‘Mummy, I want the ball,’ Chinu said. 
‘How much?’ his mother said. 
‘Six rupees,’ Ish said. 
She took out a twenty-rupee note and asked me to give two. 
‘I want the bat, mummy,’ Harsh said. 
‘You already have a bat.’ 
‘This one is better for my stance, mummy. Please.’ Harsh took a stance again. He had improved with the lesson but his mother ignored him. 
‘How much is this?’ she said. 
‘Two hundred rupees,’ I said. 
‘Too expensive. No Harsh, we are not getting a bat.’ ‘My birthday present, mummy, please.’ Harsh cajoled. 
‘Yes but beta, why buy something from this temple shop. Old city doesn’t have good quality. We will go to the Navrangpura market.’ 
‘It is excellent quality, aunty. We source from Kashmiri suppliers. Take my word,’ Ish said. 
‘Aunty’ eyed us with suspicion. 
‘I was the team captain for all municipal schools in the area, aunty. I have personally chosen the bats,’ Ish said with as much heart as Omi’s dad said his prayers. 
‘Please, mummy,’ Harsh said and tugged at her saree. The tug connected to aunty’s purse, which opened and brought out
two hundred-rupee notes. 
Done. We had closed the deal of the day. The bat cost us a hundred and sixty, so forty bucks profit, I exclaimed mentally. 
‘Goodbye, champ.’ Ish waved to Harsh. 
‘I’ll come to your shop on my happy birthday,’ Chinu said. 
‘Yes! You are amazing, Ish,’ I said and hi-fived everyone. 
‘The kid is a quick learner. If he practices, he will be good. Of course, his mother will stuff him with studies the moment he reaches Class X. The only stance he will take is to sit on a desk with his books,’ Ish said. 
‘Don’t be depressing, man,’ I said. ‘We made forty bucks on the bat and four on the two balls. We are forty-four bucks in profit, sir.’ 
We sold some candy and two more balls in the next two hours. Our total profit for the day was fifty bucks. We moved the bats and the ball baskets inside and closed shop at 7.00 p.m., after the puja. To celebrate our opening we chose the chana-bhatura stall. At four bucks a plate, I could expense it to the business. 
‘Do I get to take some money home? I really want to give mom my first salary,’ Omi said as he tucked in half a chili with his hot bhatura. 
‘Wait, this isn’t real profit. This is contribution. We earn the rent first and then we will see.’ I placed my empty plate back at the stall. ‘Congrats guys, we are in business.’ 
Three Months Later 
‘Eight thousand three, four and five hundred,’ I said as I emptied the cashier’s box. ‘This is our profit for the first three months after paying rent. Not bad, not bad at all.’ 
I was super-pleased. Our shop had opened at an opportune time. The summer vacations had started and India had won the one-day series with South Africa. Kids with lots of time and
patriotism flocked to Team India Cricket Shop the day they received their pocket money. 
Some came even without money, if only to meet Ish and get tips on cricket. I didn’t mind as it helped us pass the time. The dull aspect of opening a shop is boredom. We opened from nine to seven, and even with twenty customers a day it meant only around two customers an hour. 
‘So we get our share now?’ Omi said excitedly. 
I divided the money into four stacks. The first three stacks were fifteen hundred rupees each – the money each of us could take home. The remaining four thousand was to be retained in the business. 
‘What do you mean retained? What do we need to retain it for?’ Ish questioned even as Omi happily counted his notes. 
‘Ish, we need to keep a war chest in case we want to renovate the store. Don’t you want a better glass countertop? Or nicer lighting?’ 
Ish shook his head. 
‘Sure we do. And … I have expansion plans,’ I said. ‘What?’ 
‘There is a new shopping mall under construction at Navrangpura char rasta. If you book early, you can get a discount on renting a shop.’ 
‘Renting? But we already have a shop,’ Ish said, puzzled and irritated at the same time. 
I knew why Ish grumbled. He wanted to buy a TV for the shop. Listening to matches on radio during shop hours was no fun. 
‘No Ish, a proper shop. Young people like to shop in swanky malls. That is the future. Our shop has been doing good business, but we can’t grow unless we move to a new city location.’ 
‘I like it here,’ Omi said. ‘This is our neighbourhood. What we sell is being used by kids in Nana Park.’
‘I don’t want this short-sighted mentality. I will open a store in a mall, and by next year have one more store. If you don’t grow in business, you stagnate.’ 
‘Another shop? What? We will not be working together?’ Omi said. 
‘It is Govind’s bullshit. We have only started and he already aspires to be Ambani. Can’t we just buy a TV?’ Ish said, ‘Shah Electronics will give us on instalment if we pay a downpayment of four thousand.’ 
‘No way. We keep the four thousand for business.’ ‘Well, the TV belongs to the business, no?’ Ish said. 
‘Yes, but it is a dead asset. It doesn’t earn. We have a long way to go. Three thousand a month is nothing. And Ish doesn’t let me keep notebooks and pencils…’ 
‘I said this is a sports store. I don’t want kids to think about studies when they come here.’ 
Ish and I had argued about this before. I saw an easy opportunity, but Ish protested every time. 
‘Ok, here is a deal,’ Ish said, ‘I agree to the notebooks, not textbooks mind you, only notebooks. But we buy a TV. I have to watch matches. I don’t care, here take my fifteen hundred.’ 
He threw his share of cash at me. 
Omi tossed in his money as well. As usual, I had to surrender to fools. 
‘Ok, but we need to increase the revenue. Target for next quarter is twenty thousand bucks.’ 
They ignored me as they discussed TV brands. I shook my head and outlined my strategy for increasing revenues. 
‘Will you do coaching classes?’ I asked Ish. 
‘What?’ 
‘Kids love your cricket tips. Why not do cricket coaching for a fee?’ 
‘Me? I am not that good man. And where? In the temple?’
‘No, we will do it in the abandoned SBI compound.’ ‘Why? Aren’t we making enough?’ Omi said. 
‘We can never make enough. I want to get to fifty thousand a quarter. Omi, you can give fitness training to the students.’ 
‘So more work for us. What about you?’ Ish said. ‘I am going to start offering maths tuitions again.’ ‘Here?’ 
‘Yes, a couple here, or in the SBI compound itself while you guys give cricket coaching.’ 
Omi and Ish looked at me like I was the hungriest shark in the world. 
‘C’mon guys. I am making sure we have a solid healthy business.’ 
‘It is ok. Just the shop is so boring, Ish,’ Omi said. He was excited about making kids do pushups. 
‘Yeah, at least I will get to hit the pitch,’ Ish said. 
I tossed in my fifteen hundred, too, and we bought a TV the same day. We set it permanently at the sports channel. Omi brought mats and cushions and spread them in front of the TV. On match days, we would all sit there until a customer arrived. I had to admit, it made the day go by much quicker. 
I changed the board on the shop. Under the ‘Team India Cricket Shop’, it also said ‘Stationery, Cricket Coaching and Maths Tuitions available’. I may not have diversified geographically, but I had diversified my product offering.

A 
Three 

part from cricket, badminton was the other popular game in Belrampur. In fact, the girls only played badminton. It was an excellent turnover business. Shuttle cocks needed to be replaced, rackets needed rewiring and badminton rackets didn’t last as long as cricket bats. 
School stationery became the other hit item in the following weeks. Only some kids played sports, but every kid needed notebooks, pens and pencils, and parents never said no to that. Many times, someone buying a ball would buy a notebook, or the other way round. We offered a total solution. Soon, suppliers came to us themselves. They kept stuff on credit and returnable basis – chart paper, gum bottles, maps of India, water bottles and tiffin boxes. It is only after you open a shop that you realise the length and breadth of the Indian student industry. 
We kept the cricket coaching and tuitions at the same price – 250 rupees a month. Customers for maths tuitions were easier to get, given the higher demand and my track record. I taught at the SBI compound building in the mornings. Ish used the compound grounds for the two students who signed up for cricket tuitions. They were the best players in the Belrampur Municipal School and had fought with their parents to let them try coaching for three months. 
Of course, we still spent most of our time in the shop. 
‘Should we do greeting cards?’ I wondered as I opened a sample packet left by a supplier. At five-rupee retail price and two-rupee cost price, cards had solid margins. However, people in Belrampur did not give each other greeting cards. 
‘This is in-swinger, and this is off-swinger. By the way, this is the third ball in two weeks. What’s up Tapan?’ Ish asked a regular customer. Thirteen-year-old Tapan was one of the best bowlers of his age in the Belrampur Municipal
School. Ish gripped the cricket ball and showed him the wrist movement. 
‘It is that nightmare Ali. Ball keeps getting lost with his shots. Why did he move to our school?’ Tapan grumbled as he rubbed the ball on his shorts. 
‘Ali? New student? Haven’t seen him here,’ Ish said. All good players visited our store and Ish knew them personally. 
‘Yes, batsman. Just joined our school. You should come see him. He wouldn’t come here, right?’ Tapan said. 
Ish nodded. We had few Muslim customers. Most of them used other Hindu boys to make their purchases. 
‘You want to sign up for cricket tuitions. Ish will teach you, he played at the district level,’ I could not help pitching our other service. 
‘Mummy will not allow. She said I can only take tuitions for studies. No sports coaching,’ Tapan said. 
‘It is ok, have a good game,’ Ish said, ruffling the boy’s hair. 
‘You see this. That is why India doesn’t win every match,’ Ish said after Tapan left. 
Yes, Ish has this ridiculous theory that India should win every match. ‘Well, we don’t have to. It won’t be much of a game otherwise,’ I said and closed the cash box. 
‘Our country has a billion people. We should always win,’ Ish insisted. 
‘Statistically impossible.’ 
‘Why? Australia has twenty million people. Yet they win almost every match. We have fifty times the people, so fifty times the talent. Plus, cricket is India’s only game while Australia has rugby and football and whatever. So there is no way we should be defeated by them. Statistically, my friend, Australia should be a rounding error.’ 
‘Then why?’ I said.
‘Well, you saw that kid. Parents will spend thousands teaching kids useless trigonometry and calculus they will never use in real life. But if it is sports coaching, it is considered a waste of money.’ 
‘Don’t worry, we have them covered. Our shop now offers both.’ 
‘It is not about the business Govind. Really, is this just about money for you?’ 
‘Money is nice…’ 
‘These kids, Govind. Look at them, thirteen-year-olds holding their bats with pride. Or the way they want to learn to bowl better. They have a fire in their eyes before every little match at Nana Park. When India wins, they dance. They are they only people I see with passion. I like being with them.’ 
‘Whatever,’ I shrugged. 
‘Of course, in two years time they will reach Class X. Their bats will be replaced with physics books. And then the spark will begin to die. Soon, they will turn into depressed adults.’ 
‘That is not true, Ish. Everyone needs a passion. I have mine.’ 
‘Then why are most grown-ups so grumpy? Why can’t they smile more often and be excited like those kids at Nana Park?’ 
‘Can you stop being grumpy now and help me clean the shop?’ 

‘Ok, ok, we will do a booze party,’ I laughed. Omi and Ish had gripped me tight from both sides until I relented. 
‘Where is my son Omi?’ Bittoo Mama entered our shop at closing time and proceeded to hug his nephew. He held a box of sweets in a red velvet cloth. 
‘Where were you, Mama?’ Omi said. Since the shop opened, he had never visited us.
‘I toured all over Gujarat, with Parekh-ji. What an experience! Here, have some besan ladoos. Fresh from Baroda,’ Bittoo Mama said. I ordered a Frooti. Ish pulled out stools and we sat outside. I picked a ladoo. 
‘What is this, Omi? Wearing shoes?’ Bittoo Mama’s eyes were lined with kohl. He had a red tikka in the middle of his forehead. 
‘Mama?’ Omi squeaked. I looked at my feet. I wore fake Reebok slippers. Ish wore his old sneakers. 
‘Your shop is in a temple, and you are wearing shoes? A Brahmin priest’s boy?’ 
‘Mama, c’mon this is outside the temple. None of the other shopkeepers wear…’ 
‘Other shopkeepers are useless baniyas so you will also become like them? Do you do puja every morning before you open?’ 
‘Yes, Mama,’ Omi lied point-blank. 
‘You also,’ Mama said, referring to Ish and me. ‘You are Hindu boys. You have your shop in such a pure place. At least remove your shoes, light a lamp.’ 
‘We come here to work, not to perform rituals,’ I said. I now paid full rent every month to be in this shop. Nobody told me how to run my business. 
Mama looked surprised. ‘What is your name?’ 
‘Govind.’ 
‘Govind what?’ 
‘Govind Patel.’ 
‘Hindu, no?’ 
‘I am agnostic,’ I said, irritated as I wanted to shut the shop and go home. 
‘Agno…?’ 
‘He is not sure if there is God or not,’ Ish explained.
‘Doesn’t believe in God? What kind of friends do you have, Omi?’ Mama was aghast. 
‘No, that is an atheist,’ I clarified. ‘Agnostic means maybe God exists, maybe he doesn’t. I don’t know.’ 
‘You young kids,’ Bittoo said, ‘such a shame. I had come to invite you and look at you.’ 
Omi looked at me. I turned my gaze away. 
‘Don’t worry about Govind, Mama. He is confused.’ I hate it when people take my religious status for confusion. Why did I have to or not have to believe in something? 
Ish offered the Frooti to Bittoo Mama. It softened him a little. 
‘What about you?’ Mama asked Ish. 
‘Hindu, Mama. I pray and everything.’ Ish said. Yeah right, only when six balls were left in a match. 
Mama took a large sip and shifted his gaze to Omi and Ish. As far as he was concerned I did not exist. 
‘What did you want to invite us for Mama?’ Omi said. 
He lifted the red velvet cloth and unwrapped a three-foot long brass trishul. Its sharp blades glinted under the shop’s tubelight. 
‘It’s beautiful. Where did you get it from?’ Omi queried. 
‘It is a gift from Parekh-ji. He said in me he sees the party’s future. I worked day and night. We visited every district in Gujarat. He said, “if we have more people like Bittoo, people will be proud to be Hindu again.” He made me the recruitment in-charge for young people in Ahmedabad.’ 
Ish and I looked at Omi for footnotes. 
‘Parekh-ji is a senior Hindu party leader. And he heads the biggest temple trust in Baroda,’ Omi said. ‘What, he knows the CM or something, Mama?’ 
‘Parekh-ji not only knows the CM, but also talks to him twice a day,’ Bittoo Mama said. ‘And I told Parekh-ji about
you, Omi. I see in you the potential to teach Hindu pride to young people.’ 
‘But Mama, I’m working full time…’ 
‘I am not telling you to leave everything. But get in touch with the greater responsibilities we have. We are not just priests who speak memorised lines at ceremonies. We have to make sure India’s future generation understands Hindutva properly. I want to invite you to a grand feast to Parekh-ji’s house. You should come too, Ish. Next Monday in Gandhinagar.’ 
Of course, blasphemous me got no invitation. 
‘Thanks, Mama. It sounds great, but I don’t know if we can,’ Ish said. How come some people are so good at being polite. 
‘Why? Don’t worry, it is not just priests. Many young, working people will also come.’ 
‘I don’t like politics,’ Ish said. 
‘Huh? This isn’t politics, son. This is a way of life.’ ‘I will come,’ Omi said. 
‘But you should come too, Ish. We need young blood.’ Ish stayed hesitant. 
‘Oh, you think Parekh-ji is some old, traditional man who will force you to read scriptures. Do you know where Parekh ji went to college? Cambridge, and then Harvard. He had a big hotel business in America, which he sold and came back. He talks your language. Oh, and he used to play cricket too, for the Cambridge college team.’ 
‘I will come if Govind comes,’ said Ish the idiot. 
Mama looked at me. In his eyes, I was the reason why Hindu culture had deteriorated lately. 
‘Well, I came to invite the three of you in the first place. He only said he doesn’t believe in God.’ 
‘I didn’t say that,’ I said. Oh, forget it, I thought.
‘Then come.’ Mama stood up. ‘All three of you. I’ll give Omi the address. It is the grandest house in Gandhinagar.’ 

People called me Mr Accounts; greedy, miser, anything. But the fact is, I did organise an all-expense-paid booze party to motivate my partners at the shop. It is bloody hard to get alcohol in Ahmedabad, let alone bulky bottles of beer. One of my contacts – Romy Bhai – agreed to supply a crate of extra strong beer for a thousand bucks. 
At 7 p.m. on the day of the party, Romi Bhai left the beer – wrapped in rags – at the SBI compound entrance. I came to the gate and gave Romi Bhai the day’s newspaper. On the third page of the newspaper, I had stapled ten hundred-rupee notes. He nodded and left. 
I dragged the cloth package inside and placed the bottles in the three ice-filled buckets I had kept in the kitchen. I took out the bottle opener from the kitchen shelf, where we kept everything from Maggi noodles to boxes of crackers to burst when India won a match. 
Another person may see the abandoned SBI branch as an eerie party venue. This used to be an old man’s haveli. The owner could not repay and the bank foreclosed the property. Thereafter, the bank opened a branch in the haveli. The owner’s family filed a lawsuit after he died. The dispute still unresolved, the family obtained a court injunction that the bank could not use the property for profit. Meanwhile, SBI realised that a tiny by lane in Belrampur was a terrible branch location. They vacated the premises and gave the keys to the court. The court official kept a key with Omi’s dad, a trustworthy man in the area. This was done in case officials needed to view it and the court was closed. Of course, no one ever came and Omi had access to the keys. 
The property was a six-hundred square yard plot, huge by Belrampur standards. The front entrance directly opened into the living room, now an abandoned bank customer service area. The three bedrooms on the first floor were the branch manager’s office, the data room and the locker room. The
branch manager’s office had a giant six-feet vault. We kept our cricket kit in the otherwise empty safe. 
We hung out most in the haveli’s backyard. In its prime, it was the lawn of a rich family. As part of the bank branch, it was an under-utilised parking lot and now, our practice pitch. 
I rotated the beer bottles in the ice bucket to make them equally cold. 
Ish walked into the bank. 
‘So late,’ I said. ‘It is 8.30.’ 
‘Sorry, watching cricket highlights. Wow, strong beer,’ Ish said as he picked up a bottle. We had parked ourselves on the sofas in the old customer waiting area downstairs. I reclined on the sofa. Ish went to the kitchen to get some bhujia. 
‘Omi here?’ Ish said as he opened the packet. 
‘No, I am the only fool. I take delivery, clean up the place and wait for my lords to arrive.’ 
‘Partners, man, partners,’ Ish corrected. ‘Should we open a bottle?’ 
‘No, wait.’ 
Omi arrived in ten minutes. He made apologies about his dad holding him back to clean the temple. Omi then prayed for forgiveness before drinking alcohol. 
‘Cheers!’ all of us said as we took a big sip. It was bitter, and tasted only slightly better than phenyl. 
‘What is this? Is this genuine stuff?’ Ish asked. 
We paused for a moment. Spurious alcohol is a real issue in Ahmedabad. 
‘Nah, nobody makes fake beer. It is just strong,’ I said. 
If you filled your mouth with bhujia, the beer did not taste half as bad. In fact, the taste improved considerably after half a bottle. As did everyone’s mood. 
‘I want to see this Ali kid. Three customers have mentioned him,’ Ish said.
‘The Muslim boy?’ Omi said. 
‘Stop talking like your Mama?’ Ish scolded. ‘Is that relevant? They say he has excellent timing.’ 
‘Where does he play?’ I enquired through a mouthful of bhujia. 
‘In our school. Kids say his most common shot is a six.’ 
‘Let’s go check him out. Looks like the school has your worthy successor,’ I said. 
Ish turned silent. It was a sensitive topic and if it was not for the beer, I would not have said it. 
‘Succeeding Ish is hard,’ Omi said. ‘Remember the hundred against Mahip Municipal School, in sixty-three balls? No one forgets that innings.’ Omi stood up and patted Ish’s back again, as if the ten-year-old match had ended minutes ago. 
‘No one forgets the two ducks in the state selection trials either,’ Ish said and paused again. 
‘Screw that, you were out of form, man,’ Omi said. 
‘But those are the matches that fucking mattered, right? Now can we flip the topic?’ 
Omi backed off and I gladly changed the subject. ‘I think we should thank our sponsors for tonight – The Team India Cricket Shop. In seven months of operation, our profit is 42,600 rupees. Of which, we have distributed 18,000 to the partners and 22,000 is for the Navrangpura shop deposit. And the remaining 2,600 is for entertainment like tonight. So, thank you, dear shareholders and partners, and let’s say cheers to the second bottle.’ 
I took out the second bottle for each of us from the ice bucket. 
‘Stud-boy,’ Ish slurred, standing up, ‘This business and its profit is all owed to Stud-boy, Mr Govind Patel. Thank you, buddy. Because of you this dropout military cadet has a future. And so does this fool who’d be otherwise jingling bells in the temple all his life. Give me a hug, Stud-boy.’
He came forward to give me a hug. It was drunk affection, but genuine enough. 
‘Will you do me one more favour buddy?’ Ish said. ‘What?’ 
‘There is someone who wants maths tuitions,’ Ish said. 
‘No, I am full, Ish. Seven students already…,’ I said as Ish interrupted me. 
‘It is Vidya.’ 
‘Your sister?’ 
‘She finished Class XII. She is dropping a year now to prepare for the medical entrance.’ 
‘You don’t need maths to become a doctor.’ 
‘No, but the entrance exams do. And she is awful at it. You are the best man, who else can I trust?’ 
‘If it is your sister, then I mean…,’ I took a breath. ‘Wow, Vidya to join medical college? Is she that old now?’ 
‘Almost eighteen, dude.’ 
‘I teach younger kids though, class five to eight. Her course is more advanced. I am not in touch.’ 
‘But you got a fucking century in that subject, dude. Just try, she needs any help she can get.’ 
I said nothing for a while, trying to remember what I knew of Vidya, which was little. 
‘What are you thinking. Oh, I know, Mr Accounts. Don’t worry, we will pay you,’ Ish said and took a big sip. 
‘Shut up, man. It is for your sister. Ok, I’ll do it. When do we start?’ 
‘Can you start Monday … no Monday is Parekh-ji’s feast. Damn, Omi what the fuck are we going to do there?’ 
‘The things we do to keep your Mama happy.’ I couldn’t wait to move to Navrangpura.
‘Parekh-ji is supposed to be a great man,’ Omi said. ‘And I always listen to you guys. Come for me this time.’ 
‘Anyway, Tuesday then,’ I said to Ish. ‘So is she going to come to the bank?’ 
‘Dad will never send her out alone. You come home.’ 
‘What?’ I said. Maybe I should have accepted a fee. ‘Ok, I’ll move some classes. Say seven in the evening?’ 
‘Sure, now can you answer one maths question, Mr Accounts,’ Ish said. 
‘What?’ 
‘You ordered a crate with ten bottles. We drank three each. Where is the tenth one?’ Ish stood up swaying. 
I stood as well. ‘The question is not where the tenth one is, but who does it belong to.’ I lunged for the ice bucket. Ish dived in as well. Cold water splashed on the floor as we tugged at the bottle. After a ten-second tiff, he released it. 
‘Take it, dude. What would I do without you?’

W 
Four 

e reached Parekh-ji’s residence at around eight in the evening. Two armed guards manning the front gate let us in after checking our names. The entrance of the house had an elaborate rangoli, dozens of lamps and fresh flowers. 
‘See, what a gathering,’ Bittoo Mama met us at the door. ‘Have dinner before the talk begins.’ From an aarti plate, he put big red tikkas on our foreheads. He told us Parekh-ji would make a speech after dinner. 
We moved to the massive food counter. A Gujarati feast, consisted of every vegetarian snack known to man. There was no alcohol, but there was juice of every fruit imaginable. At parties like this, you regret you have only one stomach. I took a Jain pizza and looked around the massive living room. There were fifty guests dressed in either white or saffron. Parekh-ji wore a saffron dhoti and white shirt, sort of a perfect crowd blend. Ish looked oddly out of place with his skull and crossbones, black Metallica T-shirt. Apart from us, every one had either grey hair or no hair. It looked like a marriage party where only the priests were invited. Most of them carried some form of accessory like a trishul or a rudraksha or a holy book. 
Ish and I exchanged a what-are-we-doing-here glance. 
Omi went to meet a group of two bald-whites, one grey saffron and one bald-saffron. He touched their feet and everyone blessed him. Considering Omi met these kind of people often, he had one of the highest per-capita-blessings ratio in India. 
‘The food is excellent, no?’ Omi returned. Food in Gujarat was always good. But still people keep saying it. Ish passed his Jain-dimsum to Omi. 
‘Who are these people?’ I asked idly.
‘It is quite simple,’ Omi said. ‘The people in saffron are priests or other holy men from around the city. The people in white are the political party people. Why aren’t you eating any dimsums?’ 
‘I don’t like Chinese,’ Ish said. ‘And who is Parekh-ji?’ 
‘Well, he is a guide,’ Omi said. ‘Or that is what he says to be humble. But actually, he is the chairperson of the main temple trust. He knows the politicians really well, too.’ 
‘So he is a hybrid, a poli-priest,’ I deduced. 
‘Can you be more respectful? And what is this T-shirt, Ish?’ 
Everyone shushed as Parekh-ji came to the centre of the living room. He carried a red velvet cushion with him, which looked quite comfortable. He signalled everyone to sit down on the carpet. Like a shoal of fishes, the saffrons separated from the whites and sat down in two neat sections. 
‘Where the hell do we sit?’ Ish said as he turned to me. I had worn a blue T-shirt and couldn’t find my colour zone. Bittoo Mama tugged at Omi’s elbow and asked us to join the saffron set. We sat there, looking like the protagonists of those ugly duckling stories in our mismatched clothes. Bittoo Mama came with three saffron scarves and handed them to us. 
‘What? I am not…,’ I protested to Omi. 
‘Shh … just wear it,’ Omi said and showed us how to wrap it around our neck. 
Parekh-ji sat on his wonderful magic cushion. There was pin-drop silence. Ish cracked his knuckle once. Omi gave him a dirty look. Everyone closed their eyes, apart from me. I looked around while everyone chanted in Sanskrit. They ended their chants after a minute and Parekh-ji began his speech. 
‘Welcome devotees, welcome to my humble home. I want to especially welcome the team on the right from the Sindhipur temple. They have returned from kar seva in Ayodhya for over a month. Let us bow to them and seek blessings.’
Everyone bowed to a group of six saffrons holding trishuls. 
Parekh-ji continued, ‘We also have some young people today. We need them badly. Thanks to Bittoo Mama, who brought them. Bittoo is working hard for the party. He will support our candidate Hasmukh-ji for the election next year.’ 
Everyone looked at us and gave smiling nods. We nodded back. 
‘Devotees, the Hindu religion teaches us to bear a lot. And we do bear a lot. So, today’s discussion is “How much bearing is enough? Until when does a Hindu keep bearing pain?’’’ 
Everyone nodded. My knees were stiff with pain from sitting cross-legged. I wondered if I should stop bearing pain right then and stretch my legs. 
‘Our scriptures tell us not to harm others,’ Parekh-ji said. ‘They teach us acceptance of all faiths, even if those faiths do not accept us. They teach us patience. Thousands of years ago, our wise men thought of such wonderful values, valid even today. And today you great men pass on these values to society,’ Parekh-ji said, gesturing at the priests. The priests nodded. 
‘At the same time, the scriptures also tell us not to bear injustice. The Gita tells Arjun to fight a virtuous war. So at some point we are meant to fight back. When is that point is something to think about.’ 
Vigorous nods shook the crowd. Even though I found the whole gathering and the magic red cushion a bit over the top, Parekh-ji’s logic was flawless. 
‘And right now, I see that injustice again. Hindus being asked to compromise, to accept, to bear. Hindus asked for the resurrection of one temple. Not any temple, a temple where one of our most revered gods was born. But they won’t give it to us. We said we will move the mosque respectfully, round the corner. But no, that was considered unreasonable. We tried to submit proof, but that was suppressed. Is this justice?
Should we keep bearing it? I am just an old man, I don’t have the answers.’ 
Ish whispered in my ear, ‘It is politics, man. Just pure simple politics.’ 
Parekh-ji continued: ‘I don’t even want to go into who this country belongs to. Because the poor Hindu is accustomed to being ruled by someone else – 700 years by Muslims, 250 years by the British. We are independent now, but the Hindu does not assert himself. But what makes me sad is that we are not even treated as equals. They call themselves secular, but they give preference to the Muslims? We fight for equal treatment and are called communal? The most brutal terrorists are Muslim, but they say we are hardliners. More Hindu kids sleep hungry every night than Muslim, but they say Muslims are downtrodden.’ 
Parekh-ji stopped to have a glass of water. ‘They say to me, Parekh-ji, why do you know so many politicians? I say, I am a servant of God. I didn’t want to join politics. But if I as a Hindu want justice, I need to get involved in how the country is run. And what other way is there to get involved than join politics? So, here I am half saffron, half white – at your service.’ 
The audience gave a mini applause, including Omi. Ish and I were too overfed to react. 
‘But there is hope. You know where this hope comes from – Gujarat. We are a state of businessmen. And you might say a hundred bad things about a businessman, but you cannot deny that a businessman sees reality. He knows how the parts add up, how the world works. We won’t stand for hypocrisy or unfairness. That is why, we don’t elect the pseudo-secular parties. We are not communal, we are honest. And if we react, it is because we have been bearing pain for a long time.’ 
The audience broke into full applause. I used the break to step out into the front garden of Parekh-ji’s house and sit on an intricately carved swing. Parekh-ji spoke inside for ten more minutes, inaudible to me. I looked at the stars above and thought of the man on the velvet cushion. It was strange, I was
both attracted to and repelled by him. He had charisma and lunacy at the same time. 
After his speech there were a few more closing mantras, followed by two bhajans by a couple of priests from Bhuj. Ish came out. ‘You here?’ 
‘Can we go home?’ I said. 

I reached Ishaan’s house at 7 p.m. on Tuesday. She sat at her study table. Her room had the typical girlie look – extra clean, extra cute and extra pink. Stuffed toys and posters with cheesy messages like ‘I am the boss’ adorned the walls of the room. I sat on the chair. Her brown eyes looked at me with full attention. I couldn’t help but notice that her childlike face was in the process of turning into a beautiful woman’s. 
‘So which areas of maths are you strong in?’ 
‘None really,’ she said. 
‘Algebra?’ 
‘Nope.’ 
‘Trigonometry?’ 
‘Whatever.’ 
‘Calculus?’ 
She raised her eyebrows as if I had mentioned a horror movie. 
‘Really?’ I said, disturbed at such indifference to my favourite subject. 
‘Actually, I don’t like maths much.’ 
‘Hmmm,’ I said and tried to be like a thoughtful professor. ‘You don’t like it much or you don’t understand a few things and so you don’t like it yet? Maths can be fun you know.’ 
‘Fun?’ she said with a disgusted expression. 
‘Yes.’
She sat up straight and shook her head. ‘Let me make myself clear. I positively hate maths. For me it occupies a place right up there with cockroaches and lizards. I get disgusted, nauseated, and depressed by it. Between an electric shock or a maths test, I will choose the former. I heard some people have to walk two miles to get water in Rajasthan. I would trade my maths problems for that walk, everyday. Maths is the worst thing ever invented by man. What were they thinking? Language is too easy, so let’s make up some creepy symbols and manipulate them to haunt every generation of kids. Who cares if sin theta is different from cos theta? Who wants to know the expansion of the sum of cubes?’ 
‘Wow, that’s some reaction,’ I said, my mouth still open. 
‘And fun? If maths is fun, then getting a tooth extraction is fun. A viral infection is fun. Rabies shots are fun.’ 
‘I think you are approaching it the wrong way.’ 
‘Oh ho ho, don’t go there. I am not just approaching it. I have lived, compromised, struggled with it. It is a troubled relationship we have shared for years. From classes one to twelve, this subject does not go away. People have nightmares about monsters. I have nightmares about surprise maths tests. I know you scored a hundred and you are in love with it. But remember, in most parts of the world maths means only one thing to students.’ 
She stopped to breathe. I had the urge to get up and run away. How can I tame a wild beast? 
‘What?’ 
‘Goosebumps. See I already have them,’ she said, pulling her kameez sleeve up to her elbow. I thought the little pink dots on her skin were more from her emotional outburst than maths. 
I also noticed her thin arm. It was so fair you could see three veins running across. Her hand had deep lines, with an exceptionally long lifeline. Her fingers seemed long as they were so thin. She had applied a glittery silver-white nailpolish
only on the outer edge of the nails. How do women come up with these ideas? 
‘What?’ she said as I checked out her arm for a moment too long. 
I immediately opened a textbook. 
‘Nothing. My job is to teach you maths, not to make you like it. You want to be a doctor I heard.’ 
‘I want to go to a college in Mumbai.’ 
‘Excuse me?’ 
‘I want to get out of Ahmedabad. But mom and dad won’t let me. Unless, of course, it is for a prestigious course like medicine or engineering. Engineering has maths, maths means vomit so that is ruled out. Medicine is the other choice and my exit pass. But they have this medical entrance exam and…’ 
I realised that Vidya did not have an internal pause button. And since I had only an hour and the tutorial equivalent of climbing Everest barefoot, I wanted to come to the point. 
‘So, which topic would you like to start with?’ 
‘Anything without equations.’ 
‘I saw your medical entrance exam course. Looks like there are a few scoring areas that are relatively easier.’ 
I opened the medical exam entrance guide and turned it towards her. 
‘See this, probability,’ I said. ‘This and permutations will be twenty-five per cent of the maths exam. Statistics is another ten per cent. No equations here, so can we start with this?’ 
‘Sure,’ she said and took out a brand new exercise book. She kept two pens parallel to the notebook. She opened the first page of the probability chapter like she was the most diligent student in India. Most clueless, probably. 
‘Probability,’ I said, ‘is easily the most fun. I say this because you can actually use the concepts in probability to solve everyday problems.’
‘Like what?’ 
‘Like what what?’ 
‘What everyday problems can you solve?’ she quizzed, brushing aside a strand of hair. 
‘Well, you are going ahead, but let’s see.’ I looked around for an easy example. I noticed her impeccably done-up room, tucked in pink bedsheets. On the opposite wall were posters of Westlife, Backstreet Boys, Hrithik Roshan. Next to them was a wall of greeting cards. ‘See those cards?’ 
‘They are birthday cards from my school friends. I had my birthday two months ago.’ 
I ignored the information overload. ‘Say there are twenty of them. Most are white, though. Some are coloured. How many?’ 
‘Five coloured ones,’ she said, scanning the cards, her eyes asking ‘so?’ 
‘Cool, five. Now let’s say I take all the cards and put them in a sack. Then I pull out one card, what is the probability the card is coloured?’ 
‘Why would you put them in a sack?’ she said. 
‘Hypothetical. What is the chance?’ 
‘I don’t know.’ 
‘Ok, so let’s use this example to start the basic premise of probability. Probability can be defined as,’ I said as I wrote the lines: 
Probability = No of times something you want happens/ No of times something can happen 
‘How come there are no symbols?’ she said. 
‘See, I told you probability is interesting. Let’s look at the denominator. How many different cards can come out if I pull out one card from the stack of twenty?’ 
‘Er … twenty?’ 
‘Yes, of course. Good.’
‘Duh!’ she said. 
I controlled my irritation. I dumbed down the problem for her and she duh-ed me. Some attitude, there. 
‘And now the numerator. I want a coloured card. How many different coloured cards can come out if I pull one?’ 
‘Five?’ 
‘Yep. And so let’s apply our wordy formula,’ I said and wrote down. 
Probability = No of times something you want happens (5) / No of times something can happen (20) 
So, probability = 5/20 = 0.25 
‘There you go. The probability is 0.25, or twenty-five per cent.’ I said and placed the pen back on the table. She reread what I wrote for a few moments. 
‘That is simple. But the exam problems are harder,’ she said at last. 
‘We will get there. But the basic concept needs to be understood first. And you didn’t vomit.’ 
I was interrupted by two beeps on her cellphone. She rushed to her bedside table to pick up the phone. She sat on the bed and read her message. ‘My school friend. She’s stupid,’ she smiled fondly at the phone. 
I kept silent and waited for her to come back. ‘Ok, let’s do another one,’ I said. ‘Let us say we have a jar with four red and six blue marbles.’ 
I finished three more problems in the next half an hour. ‘See, it’s not that hard when you focus. Good job!’ I praised her as she solved a problem. 
‘You want tea?’ she said, ignoring my compliment. ‘No thanks, I don’t like to have too much tea.’ 
‘Oh me neither. I like coffee. You like coffee?’ 
‘I like probability and you should too. Can we do the next problem?’
Her cellphone beeped again. She dropped her pen and leaped to her phone. 
‘Leave it. No SMS-ing in my class,’ I said. 
‘It’s just…,’ she said as she stopped her hand midway. 
‘I will go if you don’t concentrate. I have turned down many students for this class.’ 
She was zapped at my firmness. But I am no Mr Nice, and I hate people who are not focused. Especially those who hate maths. 
‘Sorry,’ she said. 
‘We only have an hour. Do your fun activities later.’ 
‘I said sorry.’ She picked up her pen again and opened the cap in disgust.

‘Y 
Five 

ou. Must. Come. Now.’ The kid sucked in air after every word. ‘Ali. Is…’ 
‘Relax Paras,’ Ish told the panting boy. He had come running from the Belrampur Municipal School and was insisting we go with him. 
‘Now? It is only four, how can I close business?’ I said. 
‘He doesn’t play cricket that often. He always plays marbles. Please come today, Ish bhaiya.’ 
‘Let’s go. It is a slow day anyway,’ Ish said as he slipped on his chappals. 
Omi had already stepped out. I locked the cashbox and told the owner of the flower shop next to ours to keep watch. 
We reached our school’s familiar grounds. Twenty boys circled Ali. 
‘I don’t want to play now,’ a voice said from the centre of the crowd. 
A thin, almost malnourished boy sat on the ground, his face covered with his hands. 
‘No, Ish bhaiya has to see you play,’ Paras joined the cajoling crowd and tugged at Ali’s elbow. 
‘I don’t like cricket. It gives me a headache,’ Ali said, his hands still covering his face. 
‘I have heard a lot about you,’ Ish said as he bent down on one knee to Ali’s level. 
Ali parted his fingers to see Ish’s face. His eyes were a startling green. 
‘Hi, I am Ish. I studied in this school for thirteen years. And I teach cricket too,’ Ish said and extended a handshake to Ali.
Ali studied Ish’s face. He brought his hand forward with reluctance. 
Ali’s long hair was neatly parted. His young and fragile body resembled a girl’s. He looked like an arts or music prodigy, not a cricketer. 
‘How old is he?’ I asked a spectacled kid in the crowd. ‘He is in Class VII C,’ the kid sniffed due to a cold. I calculated, he could be no more than twelve. 
‘He just joined, no? Where from?’ I said. 
‘He was in Shahpur Madrasa before. His daddy moved him here. Since then, every bowler has lost confidence,’ he sneezed. I narrowly escaped a mucous spray. 
Ish and Omi sat cross-legged on the ground with Ali. ‘I can’t play long. I get a headache,’ Ali said. 
‘It’s ok if you don’t want to play,’ Ish said. ‘Let’s go, Omi.’ 
Ish and Omi stood up and dusted their pants. 
‘I can play an over, if you will bowl,’ Ali said as we turned to leave. 
‘Sure,’ Ish said casually. Another kid tossed a ball into his hand. 
The crowd backed off. Some kids volunteered to be fielders. Omi became the wicket keeper. I stood near the bowler’s end, at the umpire’s slot. Ali took the crease. He strained hard to look at the bowler. The crowd clapped as Ish took a short run-up. I couldn’t understand the fuss in seeing this delicate, doe-eyed boy play. The bat reached almost two thirds his height. 
Ish’s run-up was fake, as he stopped near me. A grown man bowling pace to a twelve-year-old is silly. Ish looked at the boy and bowled a simple lollipop delivery. 
The slow ball pitched midway and took its time to reach the crease. Thwack, Ali moved his bat in a smooth movement
and connected. The ball surged high as Ish and I looked at it for its three seconds of flight – six! 
Ish looked at Ali and nodded in appreciation. Ali took a stance again and scrunched his face, partially due to the sun but also in irritation for not receiving a real delivery. 
For the next ball, Ish took an eight step run-up. The boy could play, girlie features be damned! The medium pace ball rose high on the bounce and smash! Another six. 
Ish gave a half smile. Ali’s bat had not hit the ball, but his pride. The crowd clapped. 
Ish took an eleven-step run-up for the next ball. He grunted when the ball left his hand. The ball bounced to Ali’s shoulder. Ali spun on one leg as if in a dance and connected – six! 
Three balls, three sixes – Ish looked molested. Omi’s mouth was open but he focused on wicket-keeping. I think he was trying to control his reaction for Ish’s sake. 
‘He is a freak. Ali the freak, Ali the freak,’ a kid fielding at mid-on shouted and distracted Ali. 
‘Just play,’ Ish said to Ali and gave the fielder a glare. 
Ish rubbed the ball on his pants thrice. He changed his grip and did some upper body twists. He took his longest run up yet and ran forward with full force. The ball went fast, but was a full toss. Ish’s frustration showed in this delivery. It deserved punishment. Ali took two steps forward and smash! The ball went high and reached past the ground, almost hitting a classroom window. 
I laughed. I knew I shouldn’t have, but I did. To see the school cricket champion of my batch raped so in public by a mere boy of twelve was too funny. At least to me. Actually, only to me. 
‘What?’ Ish demanded in disgust. 
‘Nothing,’ I said. 
‘Where is the fucking ball?’
‘They are trying to find it. You want to buy one from my shop, coach?’ I jeered lightly. 
‘Shut up,’ Ish hissed as the ball came rolling back to him. 
Ish was about to take a run-up when Ali sat down at his crease. 
‘What happened?’ Omi was the first to reach him. 
‘I told you. I get a headache. Can I go back now?’ Ali said, his childish voice almost in tears. 
Omi looked at Ish and me. I shrugged. 
‘I told you, no? Freak!’ Paras ran up to us. 
Ali stood. ‘Can I go?’ 
We nodded. From his pocket, Ali took out some marbles that resembled his eyes. Rolling them in his hand, he left the ground. 

‘I cannot believe it,’ Ish declared as he finished his fifty morning pushups. He came and sat next to me on the bank’s backyard floor. 
Omi continued to complete his hundred. 
‘Tea,’ I announced and handed Ish his cup. My best friend had faced serious mental trauma yesterday. I couldn’t do much apart from making my best cup of ginger tea in the bank kitchen. 
‘It can’t be just luck, right? No way,’ Ish answered his own questions. 
I nodded my head towards a plate of biscuits, which he ignored. I wondered if the Ali episode would cause permanent damage to Ish’s appetite. Ish continued to talk to himself as I tuned myself out. Omi moved on to sit-ups. He also belted out Hanuman-ji’s forty verses along with the exercise. I loved this little morning break – between the students’ leaving and the shop’s opening. It gave me time to think. And these days I only thought about the new shop. ‘Twenty-five thousand rupees saved already, and fifteen thousand more by
December,’ I mumbled, ‘If the builder accepts forty as deposit, I can secure the Navrangpura lease by year end.’ 
I poured myself another cup of tea. ‘Here are your shop’s keys, Mama. We are moving to our shop in Navrangpura, in the airconditioned mall,’ I repeated my dream dialogue inside my head for the hundredth time. Three more months, I assured myself. 
‘You guys ate all the biscuits?’ Omi came to us as he finished his exercise. 
‘Sorry, tea?’ I offered. 
Omi shook his head. He opened a polypack of milk and put it to his mouth. Like me, he didn’t have much tea. Caffeine ran in Ish’s family veins though. I remembered Vidya offering me tea. Stupid girl, duh-ing me. 
‘Still thinking of Ali?’ Omi said to Ish, wiping his milk moustache. 
‘He is amazing, man. I didn’t bowl my best, but not so bad either. But he just, just…,’ Words failed Ish. 
‘Four sixes. Incredible!’ Omi said, ‘No wonder they call him a freak.’ 
‘Don’t know if he is a freak. But he is good,’ Ish said. 
‘These Muslim kids man. You never know what…,’ Omi said and gulped the remainder of his milk. 
‘Shut up. He is just fucking good. I have never seen anyone play like that. I want to coach him.’ 
‘Sure, as long as he pays. He can’t play beyond four balls. You could help him,’ I told Ish. 
‘What? You will teach that mullah kid?’ Omi’s face turned worrisome. 
‘I will teach the best player in Belrampur. That kid has serious potential. You know like…’ 
‘Team India?’ I suggested.
‘Shh, don’t tempt fate, but yes. I want to teach him. They’ll ruin him in that school. They can barely teach the course there, forget sports.’ 
‘We are not teaching a Muslim kid,’ Omi vetoed. ‘Bittoo Mama will kill me.’ 
‘Don’t overreact. He won’t know. We just teach him at the bank,’ Ish said. For the rest of the argument, Ish and Omi just exchanged stares. Ultimately, like always, Omi gave in to Ish. 
‘Your choice. Make sure he never comes near the temple. If Bittoo Mama finds out, he will kick us out of the shop.’ 
‘Omi is right. We need the shop for a few more months,’ I said. 
‘We also need to go to the doctor,’ Ish said. 
‘Doctor?’ I said. 
‘His head was hurting after four balls. I want a doctor to see him before we begin practicing.’ 
‘You’ll have to talk to his parents if you want him to pay,’ I said. 
‘I’ll teach him for free,’ Ish said. 
‘But still, for Indian parents cricket equals time waste.’ ‘Then we’ll go to his house,’ Ish said. 
‘I am not going to any Muslim house,’ Omi said almost hysterically. ‘I am not going.’ 
‘Let’s go open the shop first. It’s business time,’ I said. 

‘No cricket, I like marbles,’ Ali protested for the fifth time. Ish took four chocolates (at the shop’s expense, idiot) for him, a reward for every sixer. Ali accepted the chocolates but said no to cricket coaching, and a foot-stomping no to meeting the doctor. 
‘Our shop has marbles,’ I cajoled. ‘Special blue ones from Jaipur. One dozen for you if you come to the doctor. He is just across the street.’
Ali looked at me with his two green marbles. 
‘Two dozen if you come for one cricket coaching class in the morning,’ I said. 
‘Doctor is fine. For coaching class, ask abba.’ 
‘Give me abba’s name and address,’ I said. 
‘Naseer Alam, seventh pol, third house on the ground floor.’ 
‘What name did you say?’ Omi said. 
‘Naseer Alam,’ Ali repeated. 
‘I have heard the name somewhere. But I can’t recall…’ Omi murmured, but Ish ignored him. 
‘Dr Verma’s clinic is in the next pol. Let’s go,’ Ish said. 
‘Welcome, nice to have someone young in my clinic for a change.’ Dr Verma removed his spectacles. He rubbed his fifty-year-old eyes. His wrinkles had multiplied since I last met him three years ago. His once black hair had turned white. Old age sucks. 
‘And who is this little tiger? Open your mouth, baba,’ Dr Verma said and switched on his torch out of habit. ‘What happened?’ 
‘Nothing’s wrong. We have some questions,’ Ish said. The doctor put his torch down. ‘Questions?’ 
‘This boy is gifted in cricket. I want to know how he does it,’ Ish said. 
‘Does what?’ Dr Verma said. ‘Some people are just talented.’ 
‘I bowled four balls to him. He slammed sixes on all of them,’ Ish said. 
‘What?’ Dr Verma said. He knew Ish was one of the best players in the neighbourhood.
‘Unbelievable but true,’ I chimed in. ‘Also, he sat down after four balls. He said his head hurt.’ 
Dr Verma turned to Ali. ‘You like cricket, baba?’ ‘No,’ Ali said. 
‘This is more complicated than the usual viral fever. What happened after the four balls, baba?’ 
‘Whenever I play with concentration, my head starts hurting,’ Ali said. He slid his hands into his pocket. I heard the rustle of marbles. 
‘Let us check your eyes,’ Dr Verma said and stood up to go to the testing room. 
‘Eyesight is fantastic,’ Dr Verma said, returning. ‘I recommend you meet my friend Dr Multani from the city hospital. He is an eye specialist and used to be a team doctor for a baseball team in USA. In fact, I haven’t met him for a year. I can take you tomorrow if you want.’ 
We nodded. I reached for my wallet. Dr Verma gave me a stern glance to stop. 
‘Fascinating,’ Dr Multani said only one word as he held up Ali’s MRI scan. He had spent two hours with Ali. He did every test imaginable – a fitness check, a blood test, retinal scans, a computerised hand-eye coordination exam. The Matrix style MRI, where Ali had to lie down head first inside a chamber, proved most useful. 
‘I miss my sports-doctor days, Verma. This love for Ambavad made me give up a lot,’ Dr Multani said. He ordered tea and khakra for all of us. 
‘Are we done?’ Ali said and yawned. 
‘Almost. Play marbles in the garden outside if you want,’ Dr Multani said. He kept quiet until Ali left. 
‘That was some work, Multani, for a little headache,’ Dr Verma said. 
‘It is not just a headache,’ Dr Multani said and munched a khakra. ‘Ish is right, the boy is exceptionally gifted.’
‘How?’ I blurted. What was in those tests that said Ali could smash any bowler to bits. 
‘The boy has hyper-reflex. It is an aberration in medical terms, but proving to be a gift for cricket.’ 
‘Hyper what?’ Omi echoed. 
‘Hyper reflex,’ Dr Multani lifted a round glass paper weight from his table and pretended to hurl it at Omi. Omi ducked. ‘When I throw this at you, what do you do? You reflexively try to prevent the attack. I didn’t give you an advance warning and everything happened in a split second. Thus, you didn’t do a conscious think to duck away, it just happened.’ 
Dr Multani paused for a sip of water and continued, ‘It matters little in everyday life, except if we touch something too hot or too cold. However, in sports it is crucial.’ Dr Multani paused to open a few reports and picked up another khakra. 
I looked at Ali outside from the window. He was using a catapult to shoot one marble to hit another one. 
‘So Ali has good reflexes. That’s it?’ Ish said. 
‘His reflexes are at least ten times better than ours. But there is more. Apart from reflex action, the human brain makes decisions in two other ways. One is the long, analysed mode – the problem goes through a rigorous analysis in our brain and we decide the course of action. And then there is a separate, second way that’s faster but less accurate. Normally, the long way is used and we are aware of it. But sometimes, in urgent situations, the brain chooses the shortcut way. Call it a quick-think mode.’ 
We nodded as Dr Multani continued: 
‘In reflex action, the brain short-circuits the thinking process and acts. He can just about duck, forget try to catch it. However, the response time is superfast. Sports has moments that requires you to think in every possible way – analysed, quick-think or reflex.’ 
‘And Ali?’ Ish said.
Dr Multani picked up the MRI scan again. ‘Ali’s brain is fascinating. His first, second and even the third reflex way of thinking is fused. His response time is as fast as that of a reflex action, yet his decision making is as accurate as the analysed mode. You may think he hit that superfast delivery of yours by luck, but his brain saw its path easily. Like it was a soft throw.’ 
‘But I bowled fast.’ 
‘Yes, but his brain can register it and act accordingly. If it is hard to visualise … imagine that Ali sees the ball in slow motion. A normal player will use the second or third way of thinking to hit a fast ball. Ali uses the first. A normal player needs years of practice to ensure his second way gets as accurate to play well. Ali doesn’t need to. That is his gift.’ 
It look us a minute to digest Dr Multani’s words. We definitely had to use the first way of thinking to understand it. 
‘To him a pace delivery is slow motion?’ Ish tried again. 
‘Only to his brain, as it analyses fast. Of course, if you hit him with a fast ball he will get hurt.’ 
‘But how can he hit so far?’ Ish said. 
‘He doesn’t hit much. He changes direction of the already fast ball. The energy in that ball is mostly yours.’ 
‘Have you seen other gifted players like him?’ I wanted to know. 
‘Not to this degree, this boy’s brain is wired differently. Some may call it a defect, so I suggest you don’t make a big noise about it.’ 
‘He is Indian team material,’ Ish said. ‘Dr Multani, you know he is.’ 
Dr Multani sighed. ‘Well, not at the moment. His headaches are a problem, for instance. While his brain can analyse fast, it also tires quickly. He needs to stay in the game. He has to survive until his brain gets refreshed to use the gift again.’ 
‘Can that happen?’ Ish said.
‘Yes, under a training regimen. And he has to learn the other aspects of cricket. I don’t think he ever runs between the wickets. The boy has no stamina. He is weak, almost malnourished,’ the doctor said. 
‘I am going to coach him,’ Ish vowed. ‘And Omi will help. Omi will make him eat and make him fit.’ 
‘No, I can’t,’ Omi refused as all looked at him. ‘Dr Verma, tell them why I can’t.’ 
‘Because he’s a Muslim. Multani, remember Nasser from the Muslim University? Ali is his son.’ 
‘Oh, that Nasser? Yes, he used to campaign in the university elections. Used to be a firebrand once, but I have heard that he has toned down.’ 
‘Yes, he is in politics full time now. Moved from a pure Muslim to a secular party,’ Dr Verma said. 
Ish looked at Dr Verma, surprised. 
‘I found out after you guys left yesterday. Sometimes I feel I run a gossip centre, not a clinic.’ Dr Verma chuckled. ‘Anyway, that’s the issue then. A priest’s son teaching a Muslim boy.’ 
‘I don’t want to teach him,’ Omi said quickly. 
‘Shut up, Omi. You see what we have here?’ Ish spoke. 
Omi stood up, gave Ish a disapproving glance and left the room. 
‘How about the state academy?’ Dr Verma said. ‘They’ll ruin him,’ Ish said. 
‘I agree.’ Dr Multani paused. ‘He is too young, Muslim and poor. And he is untrained. I’d suggest you keep this boy and his talent under wraps for now. When the time comes, we will see.’ 
We left the clinic. I took out four marbles from my pocket and called Ali. 
‘Ali, time to go. Here, catch.’
I threw the four marbles high in the air towards him. I had thrown them purposely apart. 
Ali looked away from his game and saw the marbles midair. He remained in his squat position and raised his left hand high. One, two, three, four – like a magic wand his left hand moved. He caught every single one of them.

‘H 
Six 

e won’t agree, I spoke to him already,’ Ali huffed. We reached the end of Belrampur to get to his house. He lived in a particularly squalid pol. Ali pressed the bell. I noticed his father’s nameplate had a motif of the secular political party. 
‘Ali, so late again,’ his dad said as he opened the door. He wore an impeccable black achkan, which contrasted with his white beard and a tight skullcap of lace material. He looked around sixty, which meant Ali came late in his life. 
‘And who are you gentlemen?’ he said. 
‘I am Ishaan,’ Ish said. ‘And this is Govind and Omi. We are Ali’s friends.’ 
‘Friends?’ Ali’s dad said, underlining the absurd age difference. 
‘Yes abba, they came to play cricket at the school. They have a sports shop. I told you, remember?’ 
‘Come in,’ Ali’s dad said. 
We sat in the living room. Ali’s mother, wearing a brown coloured salwar suit, brought in glasses of roohafza. Even though a dupatta covered most of her face, I could make out that she must’ve been at least twenty years younger than her husband. She scolded Ali for not studying for his test the next day. I think Indian mothers have two tasks – to tell children to eat more or study more. 
‘We wanted to talk about coaching Ali,’ Ish began after Ali left the room with his mom. 
‘Cricket coaching? No, thanks. We are not interested,’ Ali’s dad said in a tone that was more conclusive than discussion oriented. 
‘But uncle…,’ Ish protested. 
‘Look above,’ Ali’s dad said and pointed to the roof, ‘look, there are cracks on the ceiling. There is this room and
one other tiny room that I have taken on rent. Does it look like the house of a person who can afford cricket coaching?’ 
‘We won’t be charging Ali,’ Ish said. 
I glared at Ish. I hate it when he gives discounts at the shop, but a hundred per cent off is insane. 
‘What will he do with cricket coaching? Already school is difficult for him after the madrasa. This is the first time Ali is studying maths. And I can’t even afford a maths tutor…’ 
‘Govind teaches maths,’ Ish said. 
‘What?’ Ali’s dad and I said together. 
‘Really, he is the best in Belrampur. He got hundred per cent marks in the Class XII board exam.’ 
I double glared at Ish. I was fully booked in tuitions and I already taught his clown of a sister for free. ‘But Ish, I can’t,’ I said. 
‘Maybe we can do a combined deal. If you allow him cricket coaching with us, we will teach him maths for free,’ Ish said ignoring my words. 
‘How can I teach for free? I have paying students waiting,’ I said. 
Ish glanced at me with disdain as if I had shot down his mission to Mars. 
‘For free?’ I mouthed to him. 
‘I will pay whatever I can,’ Ali’s dad said in a muffled voice. 
‘I am sorry, but this is how I earn my living. I can’t…’ I said, in a desperate attempt to salvage my asshole image. 
‘Just take it from my salary, ok? Can you let me talk?’ Ish said with great politeness. 
I wanted to get up and leave. 
‘I get a small retirement pension. How much do you charge?’
‘Four hun…,’ I started to say but Ish interrupted with ‘Why don’t we start and see how it goes?’ 
Everyone nodded, even Omi because he did whatever everyone else was doing anyway. 
‘Right, Govind?’ he said to me last. 
I gave the briefest nod possible, a five-degree tilt. 
‘Stay for dinner, please,’ Ali’s dad implored as we stood up to leave. 
‘No, no,’ Omi said, horrified at the idea of eating in a Muslim home. 
‘Please, I insist. For us, hospitality is important. You are our mehmaan.’ 
I would have disagreed, but I wanted to get something for the free maths-and-cricket coaching programme. 
We sat on the living room floor. Ali’s mom brought us two extra large plates, one for the three of us and another for Ali’s dad. The plates had simple food – chapattis, daal and a potato cauliflower vegetable. 
Omi sat down. He did not touch the food. 
‘Sorry I can’t offer you meat. This is all we have today.’ ‘I don’t eat meat. I am a priest’s son,’ Omi said. 
An awkward pause followed. Ish jumped in, ‘The food looks great. Dig in guys.’ 
To share a single plate is strangely intimate. Ish and I broke off the same chapatti. His long fingers reminded me of his sister’s. Damn, I had to teach her again the next day. 
‘They don’t teach maths in madrasas?’ I asked for the sake of conversation and mathematics. 
‘Not in this one,’ Ali’s dad said as he spooned in daal. ‘Maths and science are forbidden.’ 
‘That’s strange. In this day and age,’ I said. I thought of a business opportunity, a massive maths tuition chain outside every madrasa.
‘Not really,’ Ali’s dad said. ‘Madrasas were not even supposed to be schools. Their role is confined to teaching Islamic culture. Here, have some more chapattis.’ 
‘And that’s why you had him switch schools?’ Ish said. 
‘Yes. I would have done it earlier, but my father was adamant Ali goes to a madrasa. He died six months ago.’ 
‘Oh, I am sorry,’ Ish said. 
‘He was unwell for a long time. I miss him, but not the years of medical expenses that wiped me out,’ Ali’s father said. He drank a glass of water. ‘When I retired from university, I had to leave the campus quarters. The party wanted me to move here. The Belrampur Municipal School was close, so I put him there. Is it good?’ 
‘Yes, we studied there for twelve years,’ I said. 
‘Omi, you didn’t eat anything. At least have some fruit,’ Ali’s dad said, offering him some bananas. Omi took one, examined it, and gobbled it in three bites. 
‘Why are you so keen to teach Ali cricket?’ Ali’s dad said. 
The question was enough to light up Ish’s face. He spoke animatedly. ‘Ali has a gift. You see how he blossoms with my training.’ 
‘You play cricket?’ Ali’s father said. 
‘In school and now I have a sports store. I’ve seen players, but none like Ali,’ Ish said passionately. 
‘But it’s just a game. One guy hits a ball with a stick, the rest run around to stop it.’ 
‘It’s more than that,’ Ish said, offended. ‘But if you have never played it, you will never understand.’ 
Ali’s dad said, ‘You know I am a member of the secular party?’ 
‘We saw the sign,’ I said. 
‘Would you like to come and visit our party sometime?’
Omi suddenly stood up. ‘Do you know who you are talking to? I am Pandit Shastri’s son. You have seen the Swami temple in Belrampur or not?’ His voice was loud. 
Ish pulled Omi’s elbow to make him sit down. 
‘How does that matter, son?’ Ali’s dad said. 
‘You are telling me to come visit your party? I am a Hindu.’ 
‘We won’t hold that against you,’ Ali’s father grinned. ‘Ours is a secular party.’ 
‘It is not secular. It is suck-ular party. Suck-up politics, that is all you know. No wonder Muslims like you flock there. Now Ish, we are leaving or not?’ 
‘Omi, behave yourself, we came for Ali.’ 
‘I don’t care. Let him play marbles and fail maths. If Bittoo Mama finds out I am here…’ 
‘Bittoo is your Mama?’ Ali’s dad said. 
‘He is your opposition. And a suck-up party will never win in Belrampur.’ 
‘Calm down, son. Sit down,’ Ali’s dad said. 
Omi sat down and Ish massaged his shoulder. Omi rarely flared up, but when he did, it took several pacifying tactics to get him back to normal. 
‘Here, have a banana. I know you are hungry,’ Ish soothed. 
Omi resisted, but took the banana. 
‘I am also new to secular politics, son. I was in a hardline party,’ Ali’s dad said and paused to reflect, ‘yes, I made a few mistakes too.’ 
‘Whatever. Don’t even try to convert people from our party to yours,’ Omi said fiercely. 
‘I won’t. But why are you so against us? The party has ruled the country for forty years, we must be doing something right.’
